docs(design): daemon side-channel coordination (A1/A2/A4/A5) (#4511)
QwenLM/qwen-code: docs/design/daemon-sidechannel-coordination/design.md

| **A5** | A client attaching via `Last-Event-ID` gets ring replay + live tail but no snapshot of current model / approval-mode / available-commands / pending-permissions; it must issue extra pulls. |

Non-goals: multimodal user-content echo (PR #4353 §D), the A3 race fix (separate PR), clientId anti-forgery (A6 — separate security track), the streamable-HTTP transport (#4472).

---

## 1. Background — the side-channel coordination invariant

The daemon already broadcasts _transcript_ deltas (assistant text, tool calls) and the HTTP-route-initiated _control_ changes (`model_switched`, `approval_mode_changed`) over each session's `EventBus`. The gap is that **the same logical state change has two entry paths** and only one of them broadcasts:

```
HTTP route  → bridge.setSessionModel / setSessionApprovalMode → publishes event  ✅
in-session  → Session.setModel / setMode (slash command, plan-mode, agent)       ❌ silent
```

The invariant we want: **every model / approval-mode / permission state transition produces exactly one bus broadcast regardless of which path initiated it**, and **a freshly attached client can reconstruct current side-channel state without out-of-band pulls**.

> The agent already has the right primitive for the in-session direction: ACP `sessionUpdate` notifications. `current_mode_update` exists today (`Session.ts:1646`) but is wired only to the `exit_plan_mode` path (`Session.ts:2155`), not to the generic `setMode` / `setModel` entry points.

Author: Fixed (v2/v3 §1): the doc now states current_mode_update is wired to both exit_plan_mode (Session.ts:2160) and the edit-tool ProceedAlways path (Session.ts:2168), and that the gap is specifically the generic Session.setMode/setModel entry points.

---

## 2. A1 — in-session model switch on the bus

### Problem

> `Session.setModel` (`Session.ts:1580`) calls `config.switchModel()` (`:1601`) and returns — it emits no `sessionUpdate`. Only the HTTP path `bridge.setSessionModel` (`bridge.ts:2798`) publishes `model_switched`. So a `/model` slash command, a plan-mode-driven switch, or any agent-internal model change is **invisible to peer clients** — their model badge silently drifts. There is no `current_model_update` sessionUpdate type at all today.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Multiple code anchors in the document reference files or line numbers that don't exist, making them unverifiable:

1. **`bridge.ts:2798`** (line 44) — No file named `bridge.ts` exists. The actual file is `httpAcpBridge.ts`; `setSessionModel` is at line 3262, the `model_switched` publish at line 3347.
2. **`permissionMediator.ts:1124-1134`** (line 113) — This file does not exist. The voter-stamping logic lives in `httpAcpBridge.ts:1503-1522` (`resolvePending` function).
3. **`status.ts:96`** (line 127) — The CLI-local `status.ts` is a 14-line re-export shim. The actual implementation is in `packages/acp-bridge/src/status.ts:96`.
4. **`current_mode_update` "wired only to `exit_plan_mode`"** (line 36) — Also called at `Session.ts:2168` for the edit-tool `ProceedAlways` confirmation path.

Suggested fix: Update all anchors to use the correct file paths and line numbers. Use `httpAcpBridge.ts` instead of `bridge.ts`, cite `httpAcpBridge.ts:1503-1522` for the voter stamping, and qualify the `current_mode_update` claim with the additional emit site.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Anchors updated to full packages/... paths (v2/v3). One correction: bridge.ts and permissionMediator.ts DO exist at packages/acp-bridge/src/ (3923/1291 LOC) — doudouOUC independently confirmed this; packages/cli/src/serve/httpAcpBridge.ts is the 101-LOC re-export shim. So anchors stay on bridge.ts (e.g. setSessionModel/model_switched at bridge.ts:2883), not httpAcpBridge.ts. current_mode_update second caller (Session.ts:2168) noted.

> ### Proposed design

Reviewer: **[Critical]** Internal contradiction: this section presents single-emitter convergence as the **settled central design decision** ("This is the central design decision: the agent becomes the single emitter"), but Section 9 Open Question #1 (line 189) asks "confirm the agent can always emit `current_model_update` / `current_mode_update` for HTTP-initiated changes too... or whether some HTTP paths bypass the agent and must keep publishing."

Implementors cannot determine whether to proceed with removing the route-side publish (as item 4 directs) or wait for the open question to be resolved. This is the load-bearing architectural decision of A1/A2.

Furthermore, code inspection confirms the open question has a concrete answer: the HTTP approval-mode path **does** bypass `Session.setMode` (it calls `config.setApprovalMode()` directly in `acpAgent.ts:1608`), so the convergence as described is **not safe for A2** without additional changes.

Suggested fix: Resolve Open Question #1 in the design doc before approval. Audit every HTTP path that can initiate a model or approval-mode change and explicitly state for each whether it flows through the agent notification path or requires a retained route-side publish. A decision table would prevent implementors from silently dropping events.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Resolved (v3 §1.1 + §9): the former contradiction is gone — §1.1 settles the model (bridge-authoritative, not single-emitter) and §9 is a verified per-path decision table. The old Open Question #1 is now a resolved decision.

1. Add an ACP `current_model_update` sessionUpdate (mirrors `current_mode_update`): `{ sessionUpdate: 'current_model_update', currentModelId: string, authType?: string }`.
2. Emit it from `Session.setModel` after `switchModel` resolves (one helper `sendCurrentModelUpdateNotification`, symmetric to `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification`).
3. The bridge maps an inbound `current_model_update` sessionUpdate to the **existing** `model_switched` bus event and fans it out (with `originatorClientId` from the active prompt's originator when known).
4. **Converge to one source of truth.** The HTTP `setSessionModel` path's `unstable_setSessionModel` already runs inside the agent, which (after this change) emits `current_model_update`. So the bridge should publish `model_switched` from the **notification path only** and stop the separate post-roundtrip publish in `setSessionModel` — otherwise an HTTP switch double-broadcasts (once from the route, once from the agent notification). This is the central design decision: the agent becomes the single emitter; the HTTP route just drives the agent and lets the notification carry the broadcast.

### Alternatives

> - **agent→bridge side-channel callback** (extNotification) instead of a sessionUpdate. Rejected: `current_mode_update` already establishes the sessionUpdate pattern; reusing it keeps the two control axes (mode, model) symmetric and avoids a second mechanism.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** The design states "the bridge maps an inbound `current_model_update` sessionUpdate to the **existing** `model_switched` bus event" as if this mapping is trivial. Verified: the bridge's `sessionUpdate` handler (`httpAcpBridge.ts:639`) publishes **all** sessionUpdate notifications as a generic `type: 'session_update'` wrapper event. It does NOT demultiplex by `sessionUpdate` sub-type to promote specific notifications to first-class bus events.

This means the proposed mapping requires introducing an entirely new demux layer in the sessionUpdate handler — pattern-matching on the `sessionUpdate` field and publishing under a different `type`. Without an explicit design for this demux, implementors may (a) publish both the generic `session_update` and the promoted `model_switched` (double event), or (b) forget to suppress the generic wrapper for promoted sub-types.

This is especially important because `current_mode_update` already flows through this path today (from `exit_plan_mode`) and currently arrives at SDK consumers as a generic `session_update` — promoting it to `approval_mode_changed` changes the event type that existing listeners see.

Suggested fix: Add a subsection describing the demux contract: which `sessionUpdate` sub-types get promoted to named bus events, whether the generic `session_update` is suppressed for promoted types, and how unknown sub-types are handled.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed (v3 §2.1 Demux contract): explicit promotion table, generic-wrapper suppression, suppress-during-roundtrip, payload-enrichment requirement, and the current_mode_update compat call-out (it changes the observed event type → lockstep SDK update).

> - **agent→bridge side-channel callback** (extNotification) instead of a sessionUpdate. Rejected: `current_mode_update` already establishes the sessionUpdate pattern; reusing it keeps the two control axes (mode, model) symmetric and avoids a second mechanism.

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** A1 convergence as written misses `applyModelServiceId` and the racing-failure path.

Verified: `model_switched` is published from **three** sites on this branch, not just `setSessionModel`:

1. `packages/acp-bridge/src/bridge.ts:2882` — `setSessionModel` post-roundtrip publish (the one §2 item 4 names).
2. `packages/acp-bridge/src/bridge.ts:1171` — `applyModelServiceId` post-roundtrip publish (attach-time `modelServiceId` reconciliation; same `unstable_setSessionModel` → `Session.setModel` path, so it would also start receiving a notification after A1).
3. After A1: `Session.setModel` via the new `current_model_update` → demux.

If §2.4 removes only site #1, attach-time switches double-broadcast. If it removes both #1 and #2, the timeout-but-ACP-still-running race that `bridge.ts:2837-2840` explicitly documents gets **worse**: the bridge has already published `model_switch_failed` after `withTimeout` rejected, then a late `current_model_update` arrives from the agent and the demux publishes `model_switched`. Today the bridge serializes via `modelChangeQueue` and is the sole emitter — that's what prevents the race today.

Suggested fix: enumerate all three publish sites in §2.4, and add an explicit "ordering on failure path" subsection (or carve out `model_switch_failed` as bridge-only per the cross-cutting suggestion already raised on line 165). The convergence proposal needs a dedup contract for "agent notification arrives after bridge already published failure".

_— Opus 4.7 via Claude Code /review_

Author: Addressed (v3 §2 + §1.1 + §2 item 4): all three model_switched sites enumerated (bridge.ts:2883 setSessionModel, :1172 applyModelServiceId, + the new in-session notification). The bridge stays authoritative for #1/#2 (suppress-during-roundtrip prevents double-emit); model_switch_failed is carved out as bridge-only; the timeout-race contract is stated — a model_switched arriving after a timeout model_switch_failed is the authoritative-latest (events are ordered), and the modelChangeQueue serialization is preserved since the bridge keeps owning its paths.

> - **agent→bridge side-channel callback** (extNotification) instead of a sessionUpdate. Rejected: `current_mode_update` already establishes the sessionUpdate pattern; reusing it keeps the two control axes (mode, model) symmetric and avoids a second mechanism.

Reviewer 2: **[Important]** A1 has no workspace-scope mirror — asymmetric with A2 and likely incorrect for the persisted case.

`Session.setModel` defaults to `persistDefault: true` (`Session.ts:1610-1618`) and writes `model.name` to user-scope settings, which becomes the default for every future session this user spawns. A2 keeps a workspace mirror for persisted approval-mode changes precisely so peer sessions can pre-empt their own UIs (`packages/acp-bridge/src/bridge.ts:2999-3017`). A1 proposes nothing equivalent.

Either A1 should mirror A2's persisted-broadcast for model changes, or the design should state explicitly why model persistence does NOT warrant workspace fan-out (e.g., "peer sessions read the setting on next spawn, no in-flight UI to update"). Currently silent — implementors will have to guess.

_— Opus 4.7 via Claude Code /review_

Author: Addressed (v3 §2 'Workspace mirror (explicit decision)'): made explicit instead of silent — Session.setModel persistDefault:true writes user-scope settings, but A1 phase 1 does session-scoped only; rationale given (peer sessions pick up the default on next spawn; no security-relevant cross-session gating like approval-mode). A persisted-model workspace mirror is an explicit deferred follow-up (§10 Q2).

### Proposed design

1. **Fix the in-session gap (the real bug):** emit `current_mode_update` from `Session.setMode`, so the change flows to the bridge and gets published as `approval_mode_changed` on the session bus — same treatment as the HTTP path. Reuse the existing `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` machinery (generalize it to take an explicit mode rather than deriving from a tool outcome).
2. **Affirm + document the persist/visibility split** rather than change it:
   - **Session-scoped broadcast** (peers attached to the _same_ session) fires on **every** change — they are viewing the same session, so they must always reflect its current mode.
   - **Workspace-scoped broadcast** (peer _different_ sessions) stays gated on `persist=true`, because only a persisted change becomes those sessions' future default; a transient per-session mode is per-ACP-spec session-local and would mislead a peer session that didn't change.
   - Encode this explicitly in the `approval_mode_changed` doc + a `scope: 'session' | 'workspace'` discriminator on the payload so consumers stop inferring it.

> 

Reviewer: **[Critical]** A2 single-emitter convergence is structurally asymmetric and would produce a correctness regression if applied as described.

For A1, the HTTP `POST /session/:id/model` path calls `unstable_setSessionModel` on the agent, which routes through `acpAgent.ts:568` into `Session.setModel` (line 579). So emitting the notification from `Session.setModel` covers both in-session and HTTP paths, and removing the bridge-side publish is safe.

For A2, the HTTP `setSessionApprovalMode` path uses a **separate extMethod** (`qwen/control/session/approval_mode`) that calls `config.setApprovalMode()` directly in `acpAgent.ts:1608` — it does **not** go through `Session.setMode`. If the bridge's `approval_mode_changed` publish in `httpAcpBridge.ts:3449` is removed per the convergence plan, HTTP-initiated approval-mode changes will produce **no bus event at all**.

The Risk paragraph (line 94) asserts "same single-emitter convergence decision as A1" but the code paths are structurally different.

Suggested fix: Either (a) route the HTTP approval-mode extMethod through `Session.setMode` instead of calling `config.setApprovalMode()` directly, or (b) add the `current_mode_update` emission to the extMethod handler in `acpAgent.ts:1608` as well, or (c) explicitly note that A2 convergence requires a different approach than A1. This should be resolved before design approval, not deferred to Open Question #1.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed (v3 §3 + §1.1 + §9 table): A2 is now explicitly asymmetric — the HTTP approval-mode path uses the extMethod (acpAgent.ts:2228) bypassing Session.setMode, so the bridge stays the authoritative emitter for it; in-session setMode adds a notification. No bridge publish is removed for A2.

### Alternatives

- Always workspace-broadcast (drop the persist gate). Rejected: leaks a session-local transient mode to peer sessions, contradicting ACP's per-session approval semantics.

> ### Wire / compat

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** `current_mode_update` payload is insufficient to reconstruct `approval_mode_changed`; the demux can't be a 1:1 mapping.

The bus event schema requires `{previous, next, persisted}` (`packages/acp-bridge/src/bridge.ts:2978-2987`). Today's `current_mode_update` sessionUpdate carries only `currentModeId` (`Session.ts:1645-1648`). Compounding wenshao's "workspace broadcast vs single-emitter" suggestion below: the agent has no concept of `persist`, and the notification has no `previous`.

Concrete consequence: a demux layer fed only by the notification cannot produce a wire-compatible `approval_mode_changed` for existing SDK consumers that read `data.previous` / `data.persisted`. The same applies to A1's `current_model_update` if SDK consumers ever start reading additional fields.

Suggested fix: enrich the `current_mode_update` payload with `previousModeId`, and explicitly state how `persisted` is sourced — likely the bridge has to retain ownership of the workspace-scope publish + `persisted` flag computation, and only the session-scope publish flips to single-emitter. This belongs in the design, not implementation.

_— Opus 4.7 via Claude Code /review_

Author: Addressed (v3 §3 items 3/5 + §2.1): current_mode_update enriched with previousModeId (supplies );  stays bridge-sourced — the demux builds the session-scoped approval_mode_changed{previous,next,persisted:false}, and the bridge alone sets persisted:true on the workspace-scoped event. The demux payload-enrichment requirement is called out in §2.1.

Author: Correction to my prior reply (shell ate the backticks): Addressed in v3 §3 items 3/5 + §2.1. current_mode_update is enriched with previousModeId (supplies the "previous" field); the "persisted" flag stays bridge-sourced. The demux builds the session-scoped approval_mode_changed with persisted:false for in-session changes, and the bridge alone sets persisted:true on the workspace-scoped event. The payload-enrichment requirement is stated in §2.1.

> ### Wire / compat

Reviewer 2: **[Important]** `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` signature change is non-trivial; the design should acknowledge it.

Today's helper (`Session.ts:1625-1651`) takes `ToolConfirmationOutcome` and hard-codes the resulting `newModeId` to one of `'auto-edit'` / `'default'` / `getApprovalMode()`. It cannot represent `'plan'`, `'yolo'`, or `'auto'`, which `Session.setMode` (line 1564-1570) routinely sets.

"Generalize it to take an explicit mode rather than deriving from a tool outcome" understates this — the existing two callers (`Session.ts:2160` from `exit_plan_mode`, `Session.ts:2168` from edit-tool `ProceedAlways`) currently rely on the outcome→mode mapping. Either the helper splits in two, or both callers pre-compute the mode. Worth a sentence in the design.

_— Opus 4.7 via Claude Code /review_

Author: Acknowledged (v3 §3 item 4): sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification must be generalized (or split) to represent every ApprovalMode (plan/yolo/auto/…), since today it only derives auto-edit/default/current from a ToolConfirmationOutcome; the two existing tool-confirmation callers pre-compute or keep the outcome variant.

> ### Wire / compat

Reviewer 2: **[Important]** Possible double-emit when a user invokes `/approval-mode` during an in-flight tool confirmation.

Today only the tool-confirmation paths (`Session.ts:2160`, `2168`) emit `current_mode_update`. After A2, `Session.setMode` will also emit. If a user types `/approval-mode auto-edit` while an edit-tool confirmation dialog is open, the user-driven `setMode` and the tool's `ProceedAlways` outcome handler can both fire within milliseconds, producing two notifications for the same logical state.

Either acknowledge this as acceptable (the end state converges) or add a dedup mechanism (e.g., skip emit if the resulting mode == current mode at the time the notification fires).

_— Opus 4.7 via Claude Code /review_

Author: Acknowledged (v3 §3 'Double-emit edge'): /approval-mode during an in-flight tool confirmation can produce two current_mode_update within ms — documented as acceptable (end state converges), with an optional skip-if-mode-unchanged dedup. Not gated.

Item 1 is additive (reuses `current_mode_update`). Item 2's `scope` field is additive; existing consumers ignore it.

### Risk

> Low. Main care: don't double-emit when an HTTP `setSessionApprovalMode` already publishes and the agent's `setMode` notification would also publish — same single-emitter convergence decision as A1 (§2 item 4) applies. Coordinate with the A3 serialization PR (shared code path).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** A2 workspace-scoped broadcast conflicts with the single-emitter convergence directive. The convergence rule (§6) says the agent notification should be the sole emitter. But the workspace-scoped broadcast for persisted changes is a **bridge-level** decision made AFTER the agent roundtrip succeeds (`httpAcpBridge.ts:3453-3466`, where `persistApprovalMode` is called post-ACP-call and the workspace broadcast follows).

The agent has no concept of `persist`. If the bridge stops publishing separately per the convergence rule, the workspace-scoped broadcast for persisted changes silently disappears. If the bridge keeps a separate workspace publish, the single-emitter invariant is broken.

Additionally, the `current_mode_update` notification payload cannot construct a valid `approval_mode_changed` bus event: the bus event requires `{ previous, next, persisted }`, but the notification only carries `currentModeId` (mappable to `next`). The bridge currently obtains `previous` from the extMethod response and computes `persisted` from the persist hook — neither available at notification-receive time.

Suggested fix: Explicitly split the convergence rule: single-emitter applies to session-scoped broadcast only; the bridge retains a separate workspace-scoped publish gated on its own `persist` flag. Enrich the `current_mode_update` payload to include `previousModeId`.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed (v3 §3 items 3/5): single-emitter applies to session-scoped only; the workspace-scoped persist broadcast stays a bridge-level publish (agent has no persist concept). current_mode_update enriched with previousModeId so the demux can build {previous,next,persisted:false} for in-session changes; persisted:true only ever set by the bridge on the workspace event.

---

## 4. A4 — `permission_resolved` originator/voter semantics

### Problem

`permission_request.originatorClientId` = the **prompt originator**. `permission_resolved.originatorClientId` = the **voter** (`permissionMediator.ts:1124-1134`, stamped from `vote.clientId` for O8 pre-F3 wire compat). A consumer correlating the two events must special-case `permission_resolved` to know its `originatorClientId` means something different. The inconsistency is currently load-bearing wire shape (changing it is breaking).

### Proposed design (non-breaking)

Add a dedicated, unambiguous field on `permission_resolved` and **deprecate the overloaded one** without removing it:

- Emit `voterClientId` (canonical) alongside the existing `originatorClientId` (kept as a deprecated alias, same value) on `permission_resolved`.
- SDK normalizer reads `voterClientId ?? originatorClientId` and exposes it as `voterClientId` in the typed UI event; the prompt originator stays available via correlation with the matching `permission_request`.

> - Document the deprecation: `originatorClientId` on `permission_resolved` is frozen for back-compat and will not change meaning; new consumers use `voterClientId`.

Author: Fixed (v3 §4): voterClientId is specified optional; no-voter resolutions (timer expiry, session-closed, loopback voter without X-Qwen-Client-Id) carry neither field, matching today's behavior.

### Alternatives

- **Unify semantics** (make `permission_resolved.originatorClientId` carry the prompt originator). Rejected: breaking wire change; pre-F3 consumers rely on the voter value.

> 

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** A4 conflates wire-compat and SDK-API-compat.

The wire change (emit `voterClientId` alongside `originatorClientId`) is purely additive — correct. But "SDK normalizer reads `voterClientId ?? originatorClientId` and exposes it as `voterClientId` in the typed UI event" is a **breaking rename of the SDK-facing typed-event field**. Consumers reading `event.originatorClientId` on the SDK side break.

Either expose BOTH fields on the SDK typed event (with a next-major deprecation of the old one), or label this as an acceptable SDK breaking change with rationale. Right now §4 reads as "fully non-breaking" which isn't true for SDK consumers.

_— Opus 4.7 via Claude Code /review_

Author: Fixed (v3 §4): the SDK typed event now exposes BOTH originatorClientId (unchanged — no rename) and a new optional voterClientId. v2's rename was indeed an SDK-breaking change; v3 is additive on both wire and SDK. originatorClientId documented as deprecated-alias for a future major.

### Risk

Minimal. One audit point: any internal bridge/audit code reading `permission_resolved.originatorClientId` should be migrated to `voterClientId` for clarity (behavior unchanged).

---

## 5. A5 — attach-time side-channel snapshot

### Problem

A client attaching with `Last-Event-ID` (incl. `0`) gets ring replay + live tail, but **not** a snapshot of current side-channel state: approval mode, model, available commands, pending permissions. Today it must issue extra pulls (`requestSessionStatus` → `qwen/status/session/context` (`status.ts:96`), supported-commands, `POST /load`). `replay_complete` (added in #4484) tells the client _when_ it has caught up on the transcript, but not _what_ the current side-channel state is.

### Proposed design

Emit a single synthetic **`session_snapshot`** frame at subscribe time, before replay (id-less, same no-burn pattern as `state_resync_required` / `replay_complete`):

```
session_snapshot {
  approvalMode, model, availableCommands?, pendingPermissionIds?
}

> ```

Reviewer: **[Critical]** `pendingPermissionIds` in the snapshot creates an authorization gap: a client attaching mid-session receives pending request IDs without having observed the original `permission_request` event's context (tool name, command, allowed options).

Under the current `first-responder` policy, the newly-attached client can immediately vote on `POST /session/:id/permission/:requestId` to approve or deny an operation they have zero context for. Verified: `respondToSessionPermission` (`httpAcpBridge.ts:2834`) validates session existence, pending state, and option legality — but does **not** check whether the voting client ever received the original `permission_request`.

Attack scenario: collaborator attaches, gets snapshot with a pending ID, votes "allow" on a destructive shell command the original user was about to deny.

Suggested fix: Either (a) omit `pendingPermissionIds` from the snapshot entirely (clients learn them from replay if the ring still has them), or (b) gate `respondToSessionPermission` so a client must have received the original `permission_request` before being allowed to vote. Option (a) is simpler and matches the "phase 1: document the pull contract" fallback.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Adopted option (a) (v3 §5 Security): pendingPermissionIds removed from the snapshot entirely. Clients learn pending permissions from replay where the full permission_request context travels.

> ```

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** Even after addressing the auth concern on `pendingPermissionIds` (separate Critical thread above), there's a resolution-race issue worth calling out.

Between snapshot construction and the client receiving the frame, a pending permission can be resolved by another voter. A client voting on a stale id hits `bridge.respondToSessionPermission` which returns an error (verified — it short-circuits when the id is no longer in `pending`).

If the recommendation (per wenshao's option (a)) is to drop `pendingPermissionIds` from the snapshot entirely, this concern goes away too. If it's retained, the design should state that consumers must tolerate "already resolved" errors on votes against snapshot-derived ids.

_— Opus 4.7 via Claude Code /review_

Author: Moot (v3 §5): pendingPermissionIds is dropped from the snapshot entirely per the auth-gap thread, so the snapshot-vs-resolution race for pending ids no longer exists. Noted in the Security paragraph.

- Built from the same sources the pull endpoints read, captured at subscribe time.
- Ordering: `session_snapshot` → (optional `state_resync_required`) → replay frames → `replay_complete`. The snapshot is the baseline; subsequent `*_changed` deltas refine it.
- SDK: normalize to a typed `session.snapshot` UI event that seeds the view-state reducer's side-channel fields, so a fresh attach renders correct mode/model immediately without a pull.

> ### Alternatives

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Snapshot vs replay ordering creates a state-corruption risk in the SDK reducer. The design states "the snapshot is the baseline; subsequent `*_changed` deltas refine it." But the ring replay will include historical `model_switched` and `approval_mode_changed` events that **predate** the snapshot.

The existing `reduceDaemonSessionEvents` reducer unconditionally applies `model_switched` by setting `currentModelId: event.data.modelId`. If the snapshot captures model=B (current state) and the ring contains a historical `model_switched` to A, the reducer processes: snapshot(model=B) → replay(model_switched to A) = **incorrect state A**.

Suggested fix: Specify one of: (a) the SDK reducer must skip side-channel control events from the replay ring when a `session_snapshot` has been received, (b) the snapshot should carry a ring-offset marker so replay only delivers newer events, or (c) emit the snapshot AFTER `replay_complete` so replay events establish state first and the snapshot corrects drift. Add a test-plan item for this scenario.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Adopted option (c) (v3 §5): session_snapshot is now emitted AFTER replay_complete, so replay establishes historical state first and the snapshot is the authoritative final word — no stale replayed *_changed can overwrite it. Reducer applies the snapshot last; added a test-plan item.

- **Document the pull contract only** (no snapshot frame): client issues `GET context` + supported-commands after `replay_complete`. Lower effort, but keeps the extra round-trips and a window where the UI shows stale/empty side-channel state. Acceptable as a _phase 1_ if the snapshot frame is deferred.

> ### Wire / compat

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** `?snapshot=1` sub-contract is under-specified.

Open questions the design doesn't answer:

- First attach (no `Last-Event-ID` header or `Last-Event-ID: 0`): is the snapshot on or off by default?
- Reconnect (`Last-Event-ID: N>0`): opt-in only? Reconnects are exactly when the snapshot is most useful (catch up side-channel state without polls).
- Same client toggling the flag across reconnects: legal? Idempotent?
- Atomicity: the snapshot is captured at subscribe-time, but the daemon may be mid-`setSessionApprovalMode` (ext-method sent at `bridge.ts:2929`, bus publish at `:2978` not yet). The snapshot would observe inconsistent state. Either guarantee atomicity against in-flight mutations, or document "best-effort, deltas reconcile" and add a reducer test (see also the snapshot-vs-replay ordering suggestion already raised on line 146).

_— Opus 4.7 via Claude Code /review_

Author: Specified (v3 §5 '?snapshot=1 sub-contract'): first attach off-by-default unless ?snapshot=1; reconnect opt-in (most useful there); toggling legal + idempotent (each subscribe independent); atomicity best-effort — since the snapshot is now emitted after replay_complete and applied last, a mid-flight mutation reconciles via the subsequent live *_changed delta (reducer test added).

> Additive synthetic frame; unknown-type frames are already ignored by SDKs (`asKnownDaemonEvent → undefined`). Opt-in via a subscribe flag (`?snapshot=1`) if we want to avoid the cost for clients that don't need it.

Author: Fixed (v3 §5 Wire/compat): reworded — an old SDK surfaces the frame as a debug UI event (not silently ignored); called out as an extra reason to keep the frame opt-in.

### Risk

Snapshot captured at subscribe time could be marginally stale vs the first live delta — acceptable because deltas refine it and ordering guarantees the snapshot precedes them. Cost: one extra status read per attach (gate behind the opt-in flag for high-churn anonymous attaches).

---

## 6. Cross-cutting

- **Single-emitter convergence (A1+A2).** The recurring decision: when both an HTTP route and an in-session notification can publish the same control event, make the **agent notification the single source** and have the HTTP route drive the agent without separately publishing. This removes double-broadcast risk and is the cleanest invariant. Requires touching `bridge.setSessionModel` / `setSessionApprovalMode` publish sites.
- **Additive-alias pattern (A4).** Same shape as the accepted D4 `lastReplayedEventId` rename: emit canonical + deprecated alias, SDK prefers canonical. Keeps every change non-breaking.
- **SDK reducer.** A1/A2 need no SDK change for basic correctness (reuse `model_switched` / `approval_mode_changed`); A4/A5 add typed fields/events the `reduceDaemonSessionEvents` view-state reducer should consume.

> 

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Single-emitter convergence silently eliminates `model_switch_failed` publishing. The cross-cutting section directs: "make the agent notification the single source and have the HTTP route drive the agent without separately publishing."

But the bridge currently publishes `model_switch_failed` on the failure path of both `applyModelServiceId` and `setSessionModel`. These failure events have no agent-side counterpart — `Session.setModel` throws on failure, so no `current_model_update` notification is emitted. The design proposes emission only "after `switchModel` resolves" (success-only).

If the implementation follows the convergence directive and removes all bridge-side model event publishing, `model_switch_failed` events would be silently lost for both HTTP-initiated and in-session failures.

Suggested fix: Explicitly carve out `model_switch_failed` as a bridge-side publish that survives convergence. Update the test plan to verify that both HTTP and in-session model switch failures produce `model_switch_failed`.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed (v3 §2 item 3 + §6): model_switch_failed is carved out as a bridge-only event that survives the design — Session.setModel throws on failure (no notification), and the bridge keeps publishing model_switch_failed on both failure paths. Test added.

---

## 7. Sequencing

1. **A4** (smallest, purely additive alias) — land first.
2. **A1 + A2** together (shared single-emitter convergence in the bridge + symmetric `current_*_update` emits in `Session`).
3. **A5** — phase 1 documents the pull contract; phase 2 adds the opt-in `session_snapshot` frame.

Each lands as its own implementation PR after this design is approved.

---

## 8. Test plan

> - **A1:** in-session `/model` switch publishes exactly one `model_switched`; HTTP `POST /session/:id/model` publishes exactly one (no double); peer subscriber observes the change.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The test plan has several gaps relative to the risks identified in the design:

1. **A2 missing HTTP convergence test**: A1 tests "HTTP POST publishes exactly one (no double)" but A2 has no equivalent for HTTP `setSessionApprovalMode` — despite the Risk section explicitly calling out the same double-emit risk.
2. **A1 missing plan-mode trigger**: The problem statement identifies "plan-mode-driven switch" and "agent-internal model change" as silent triggers, but only `/model` slash-command is tested.
3. **A5 missing opt-out test**: The snapshot is opt-in (`?snapshot=1`), but no test verifies that attaching without the flag does NOT receive a `session_snapshot` frame.
4. **A1/A2 missing error paths**: No test for failed `setModel`/`setMode` — when the underlying operation throws, no notification should be emitted.
5. **A4 missing SDK fallback**: No test for the normalizer reading `originatorClientId` when `voterClientId` is absent (older daemon compat).

Suggested fix: Add these scenarios to the test plan before design approval, especially item 1 (the central convergence decision is untested on the A2 path).

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Test plan expanded (v3 §8): A2 HTTP no-double + persisted workspace event; A1 plan-mode trigger + failed setModel/setMode (no event) + model_switch_failed on HTTP failure; A5 opt-out (no flag → no snapshot); A4 SDK fallback to originatorClientId; snapshot-after-replay ordering + race reconcile.

### Proposed design

1. Add ACP `current_model_update`: `{ sessionUpdate, currentModelId, previousModelId?, authType? }`. Emit from `Session.setModel` after `switchModel` resolves (**success only**; on failure it throws and emits nothing).
2. `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` demuxes `current_model_update` → `model_switched` (§2.1), **only when no bridge model roundtrip is in flight** for that session.
3. **`model_switch_failed` stays bridge-only** — `Session.setModel` throws with no notification; the bridge keeps publishing it on both failure paths.
4. **Timeout-race contract.** The bridge's `withTimeout` (`bridge.ts:2844-2849`, inside `modelChangeQueue.then`) can reject (publishing `model_switch_failed`) while the ACP call later succeeds and the agent emits `current_model_update`. Events are ordered; a `model_switched` after a `model_switch_failed` means the switch actually succeeded — consumers treat the later event as authoritative. The suppress window releases when the roundtrip settles, so the late notification is promoted (true final state).

### 2.1 Demux contract (in `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()`, `bridgeClient.ts:397`)

> Today this method publishes every notification verbatim as `{ type: 'session_update', data: params }`. The demux adds:

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Zero observability at the demux decision points.

Verified: `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` (`bridgeClient.ts:391-403`) has zero logging today — it's 10 lines of silent publish. The proposed demux (promotion table, suppress-during-roundtrip, drop-when-suppressed) will add branching logic with no observability.

At 3AM, when a model switch doesn't show up in the UI, the oncall engineer has three hypotheses — "agent didn't emit," "demux dropped it," "SSE lost it" — and no way to distinguish them from logs.

**Fix:** Require structured logging at every demux decision:
```
[demux] session=<id> type=current_model_update action=promoted|dropped|generic|suppressed reason=<why>
```
At minimum: log when an event is dropped (highest-signal case). Add this to the §2.1 contract as a non-optional requirement.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Added to v5 §2.1 as a non-optional requirement: structured log at every demux decision — [demux] session=<id> type=<sub> action=promoted|dropped|suppressed|generic reason=<why> — with the dropped case highlighted so oncall can distinguish agent-did-not-emit / demux-dropped / SSE-lost.

- **Promotion table:** `current_model_update → model_switched`; `current_mode_update → approval_mode_changed` (session-scoped; deferred to step 3, see §7).
- **Suppress-during-roundtrip:** promote only when no bridge-driven roundtrip for that session is in flight (model path; §1.1).

> - **Drop-when-suppressed (third rule):** when a _promotable_ sub-type is NOT promoted because a roundtrip is in flight, **drop it entirely** — do **not** fall back to publishing the generic `session_update`. The bridge is already publishing the authoritative named event; emitting the generic wrapper too would double-signal.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** Drop-when-suppressed + concurrent in-session `/model` = permanent model-state drift.

The third demux rule drops the agent's `current_model_update` when a bridge roundtrip is in flight. But the in-session `/model` path calls `Session.setModel` directly — it does NOT enter `modelChangeQueue`. When a user types `/model B` while a bridge-driven `setSessionModel(A)` is in flight:

1. Bridge: `unstable_setSessionModel(A)` starts, suppress window opens
2. In-session: `Session.setModel(B)` fires (bypasses `modelChangeQueue`)
3. Agent emits `current_model_update(B)` → **dropped** (suppress window open)
4. Bridge publishes `model_switched(A)` (authoritative)
5. Bus shows model A; session runs model B — no subsequent event reconciles

This is not theoretical: a user can fire `/model B` in the terminal while an HTTP API call changes the model. The design's suppress mechanism assumes bridge and agent describe the **same** change, which breaks under concurrent in-session modifications.

**Fix options:**
- Post-publish reconciliation: after the bridge publishes `model_switched`, re-read `session.config.getCurrentModelId()` and emit a corrective event if divergent.
- Serialize all model changes: route in-session `/model` through `modelChangeQueue` (cleaner but requires the in-session handler to access the bridge's entry).

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v5 §2.2 (Critical): added post-roundtrip reconciliation — on roundtrip settle the bridge re-reads the agent actual current model and emits a corrective model_switched if it diverges from what it published. This bounds the in-session /model-B-during-bridge-A drift to the roundtrip window. Routing in-session /model through modelChangeQueue is noted as the longer-term source fix (§10 Q3).

- **Generic-wrapper suppression:** a promoted sub-type publishes the named event only.

> - **Payload enrichment required** for `approval_mode_changed` (`{previous,next,persisted}`); a bare notification can't build it (§3).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `model_switched` promotion payload mapping is unspecified.

§2.1 explicitly specifies payload enrichment for `approval_mode_changed` (`{previous,next,persisted}`), but no equivalent mapping exists for `current_model_update → model_switched`. The field names diverge:

| Field | Agent `current_model_update` | Bus `model_switched` |
|---|---|---|
| model identifier | `currentModelId` | `modelId` |
| session identifier | notification envelope (`params.sessionId`) | `data.sessionId` |

The SDK validator (`events.ts:1370`) strictly requires `isNonEmptyString(value['modelId'])`. Without an explicit demux mapping (`currentModelId` → `modelId`, envelope `sessionId` into `data`), every promoted `model_switched` event fails SDK validation and is silently dropped — making A1 entirely non-functional for SDK consumers.

**Fix:** Add a payload-mapping specification for `model_switched` analogous to the enrichment already specified for `approval_mode_changed`.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Specified in v5 §2.1: model_switched promotion is a field mapping, not a relabel — currentModelId → data.modelId and envelope/params.sessionId → data.sessionId. Called out that the SDK validator (events.ts:1910) requires non-empty data.modelId, so a verbatim promote would be dropped (A1 non-functional).

### Proposed design

**Session-scoped — in-session emits; bridge stays sole emitter for HTTP:**

1. Emit `current_mode_update` from `Session.setMode` (covers ACP `setSessionMode`, `acpAgent.ts:922`, and in-session `/approval-mode`).
2. The HTTP extMethod path keeps the **bridge's** session-scoped `approval_mode_changed` publish (`bridge.ts:2979`) and emits **no** agent notification (it bypasses `Session.setMode`) — the bridge is the sole emitter; nothing to suppress.
3. **`previousModeId` capture:** `Session.setMode` reads `this.config.getApprovalMode()` **before** the mutation and passes it to the generalized helper, so the demux can build `approval_mode_changed{previous,next,persisted:false}` for in-session changes (never workspace-persisted — they don't go through the bridge's persist hook). The two existing tool-confirmation callers (`Session.ts:2160`,`:2168`) bypass `setMode` and need their own previous-mode capture.

> 4. **Helper generalization:** `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` (`Session.ts:1625`) today derives `newModeId` from a `ToolConfirmationOutcome` (only `auto-edit`/`default`/current). It must be generalized/split to represent every `ApprovalMode` (`plan`/`yolo`/`auto`/…) `Session.setMode` sets, taking explicit `{currentModeId, previousModeId}`.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Helper generalization migration model is unspecified.

The design says `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` must be generalized to accept `{currentModeId, previousModeId}` instead of deriving from `ToolConfirmationOutcome`. But the two existing callers (`Session.ts:2160`, `:2168`) pass a `ToolConfirmationOutcome` argument.

Is this a flag-day migration (all callers updated atomically) or a dual-API transition? If the old signature is removed, the two call sites break. If retained, there are two code paths producing `current_mode_update` with potentially different payload shapes (the `outcome`-derived path may not populate `previousModeId`).

**Fix:** Specify: "The existing `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification(outcome)` is updated to capture `previousModeId` from `this.config.getApprovalMode()` before the mutation and delegate to the new helper. The old signature is retained for the two tool-confirmation callers only; deprecation tracked."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Specified in v5 §3 item 4: introduce a new helper taking {currentModeId, previousModeId}; the two tool-confirmation callers keep their outcome entry point, updated to capture previousModeId from getApprovalMode() before the mutation and delegate. NOT a flag-day removal; old signature retained for those callers, deprecation tracked. Avoids two payload shapes.

### Proposed design (additive on wire and SDK)

- **Wire:** emit `voterClientId` alongside `originatorClientId` (same value). Both **optional** — no-voter resolutions (timer expiry, session-closed, loopback voter without `X-Qwen-Client-Id`) carry neither, as today.
- **SDK typed event:** expose **both** `originatorClientId` (unchanged — no rename, no break) **and** a new optional `voterClientId`; old field documented as deprecated-alias for a future major.
- Prompt originator remains available by correlating with the matching `permission_request`.

### Wire / compat

Additive on both layers — no consumer breaks. Mirrors the D4 aliasing (PR #4510).

---

## 5. A5 — attach-time side-channel snapshot

### Problem

A `Last-Event-ID` attach gets replay + live tail but no current side-channel snapshot. Today it pulls `qwen/status/session/context` (`packages/acp-bridge/src/status.ts:96`), supported-commands, `POST /load`.

### Proposed design

Opt-in via `?snapshot=1`; emit a synthetic **`session_snapshot`** frame after replay:

```
session_snapshot { approvalMode, model, availableCommands? }
```

> - **Ordering: replay → `replay_complete` → `session_snapshot`.** The snapshot is the authoritative final word.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `replay_complete` does not exist in the codebase.

Verified: `grep -r 'replay_complete' packages/acp-bridge/src/ packages/cli/src/` returns zero matches. The design references it as an existing event type, but it's a **proposed new event** to be introduced by the resume/replay infrastructure.

This is a hidden hard dependency for A5 phase 2. §7 step 4 should mark it explicitly: "A5 phase 2 is blocked on `replay_complete` being introduced by PR [TBD] (resume/replay infrastructure). Phase 1 (pull-contract docs) is unblocked."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Correction: replay_complete DOES exist — it shipped in merged #4484 (eventBus.ts:444 emits it; SDK events.ts:89). The zero-match grep was against a stale tree (same class as the earlier bridge.ts-doesnt-exist note). v5 states this and clarifies A5 phase 2 introduces only the new session_snapshot frame, not replay_complete.

> - **Capture at emission time, NOT subscribe time.** v3's "capture at subscribe (T0), emit after replay" had a stale-overwrite bug: a live `model_switched` delivered during replay (newer) would be overwritten by the T0 snapshot applied last, with no later delta to reconcile. Capturing the snapshot **immediately before emission** (after `replay_complete`) guarantees it reflects state at-or-after every already-delivered delta. (Alternatively the SDK reducer rejects a snapshot dominated by applied deltas; capture-at-emission is simpler.)

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Capture-at-emission guarantee holds only under synchronous reads — this constraint should be explicit.

The design states "capturing the snapshot immediately before emission guarantees it reflects state at-or-after every already-delivered delta." This is true only if all field reads (`approvalMode`, `model`, `availableCommands`) and the SSE publish happen within a single synchronous execution turn (no `await` between read and publish).

If a future implementer adds an `await` between the state read and the publish (e.g., for logging, metrics, or an async transform), a mutation can interleave and reopen the stale-overwrite window.

**Fix:** Add to the contract: "All snapshot fields MUST be read from in-memory state and published within a single synchronous block. No `await` between read and publish."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Tightened in v5 §5: capture-at-emission now requires the field reads AND the publish to happen in a single synchronous block with no await between — stated as a hard contract requirement, since an interleaved await reopens the stale-overwrite window.

> - **First-attach ordering** (no `Last-Event-ID`): `replay_complete` is only force-pushed when a `Last-Event-ID` was provided. For a `?snapshot=1` first attach the daemon still emits a `replay_complete{replayedCount:0}` immediately, then `session_snapshot`, so the ordering contract is uniform regardless of resume.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** First-attach `replay_complete{replayedCount:0}` widens the event's contract.

Today, `replay_complete` is emitted only when a `Last-Event-ID` resume triggers actual replay. For first-attach, no `replay_complete` is emitted. Introducing a synthetic `replay_complete{replayedCount:0}` on first-attach changes the event's semantics.

Existing consumers that use `replay_complete` as a signal to transition from "replaying" to "live" state may interpret `replayedCount:0` differently from "no replay occurred" — e.g., clearing a loading indicator or enabling UI controls before initial session state is fully loaded.

**Fix:** Either document this as a lockstep consumer change alongside the §6 IDE-companion call-out, or use a distinct event name for first-attach (e.g., `attach_complete`) to avoid widening the `replay_complete` contract.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v5 §5: first-attach no longer synthesizes replay_complete{replayedCount:0} (that would widen the replaying→live contract for existing consumers). Instead session_snapshot is self-delimiting on first attach — emitted as the first frame; resume keeps replay → replay_complete → snapshot.

### Wire / compat

Additive, opt-in. An old SDK surfaces the unknown frame as a `debug` UI event (noisy, not broken) — another reason to keep it opt-in.

### Alternatives

Phase-1: document the pull contract only (pull after `replay_complete`); defer the frame.

---

## 6. Cross-cutting

- **Bridge-authoritative model (§1.1)**: bridge owns events for changes it drives; in-session changes add a notification the bridge demuxes (`bridgeClient.ts:397`); suppress + drop-when-suppressed prevent double-signal. Suppression is meaningful for the model path only; HTTP approval-mode has no agent notification.
- **Demux (§2.1) is a hard prerequisite**; A2 additionally **blocked on #4510** (`approvalModeQueue`).

> - **NOT additive everywhere.** Promoting `current_mode_update` → `approval_mode_changed` is a lockstep change. **Affected consumers** that must update in the same release: the SDK normalizer/reducer, AND `packages/vscode-ide-companion/src/services/qwenSessionUpdateHandler.ts:177` (`case 'current_mode_update'`, fed from the daemon bus) — it would silently lose mode-change notifications otherwise. A4 (`voterClientId`) and A5 (opt-in frame) ARE additive.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** IDE-companion lockstep has no transition mechanism.

This paragraph correctly identifies `qwenSessionUpdateHandler.ts:177` as a lockstep consumer, but three problems make the lockstep unachievable as specified:

1. **No dual-emit transition.** §2.1 explicitly suppresses the generic wrapper when promoting — the IDE companion loses mode-change notifications immediately, with no grace period.
2. **Different ship channels.** The daemon ships via CLI auto-update; the IDE companion ships via VS Code Marketplace. Lockstep cannot be guaranteed.
3. **Upstream dispatch also affected.** `daemonIdeConnection.ts:377` switches on `event.type` and has no `case 'approval_mode_changed'` — unrecognized types fall through to `default` and are silently dropped. Same for `DaemonChannelBridge.ts:441`. Even if `qwenSessionUpdateHandler.ts` is updated, the event never reaches it because the upstream dispatch drops it first.

**Fix:** Add a one-release-cycle dual-emit transition (both generic `session_update` wrapper AND promoted `approval_mode_changed`). The IDE companion's existing `case 'current_mode_update'` keeps working during the transition. Drop the dual-emit in the next release. Also enumerate `daemonIdeConnection.ts` and `DaemonChannelBridge.ts` as affected sites that need new `approval_mode_changed` handlers.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v5 §2.1 + §6 (Critical): added a one-release dual-emit transition (publish BOTH generic session_update and promoted approval_mode_changed) so the IDE companion keeps working until its handler ships; and enumerated the upstream dispatch sites (daemonIdeConnection.ts / DaemonChannelBridge.ts) that drop unknown types via default and also need approval_mode_changed handlers. current_model_update is brand-new so it promotes directly (no dual-emit).

Each lands as its own implementation PR after this design is approved.

---

## 8. Test plan

- **Demux/§1.1:** promoted `current_model_update` publishes `model_switched` and suppresses the generic wrapper; a notification during an in-flight bridge model roundtrip is **dropped** (not generic-published, not promoted); an in-session notification IS promoted; unknown sub-type still generic.
- **A1:** in-session `/model` AND plan-mode each publish exactly one `model_switched`; HTTP `POST /model` and attach-time `applyModelServiceId` each publish exactly one (no double); failed `setModel` (in-session + HTTP) emits no `model_switched`, HTTP still emits `model_switch_failed`; a `model_switched` after a timeout `model_switch_failed` is delivered (authoritative-latest).
- **A2:** in-session `setMode` publishes one session-scoped `approval_mode_changed{scope:'session',persisted:false}`; HTTP `POST /approval-mode` publishes one (bridge, sole emitter, no double); non-persisted does NOT workspace-broadcast; persisted adds a `scope:'workspace',persisted:true` event; failed `setMode` emits nothing; the unbounded-window divergence is prevented once `approvalModeQueue` lands.

> - **A4:** voter resolution carries `voterClientId` (= `originatorClientId`); timer/no-clientId resolution carries neither; SDK exposes both; old-daemon fallback surfaces the voter via `originatorClientId`.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** A4 test plan only asserts `voterClientId === originatorClientId` — the distinguishing case is missing.

The entire purpose of A4 is disambiguating the voter from the prompt originator when they're **different** clients. The test bullet only covers the same-client case. A bug that stamps `originatorClientId` into both fields would pass all listed tests.

**Fix:** Add: "Client A submits a prompt; Client B votes to approve the resulting permission request. Assert `permission_resolved.voterClientId === B` and `permission_resolved.originatorClientId === A`."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Added in v5 §8 (and implemented in #4539): the distinguishing case — client A submits the prompt (permission_request.originatorClientId===A), client B casts the vote (permission_resolved.voterClientId===B), assert the two differ. The same-client-only assertion is replaced/augmented.

| `POST /session/:id/approval-mode`                  | extMethod (`acpAgent.ts:2200`) → `config.setApprovalMode` (`:2228`)          | ❌ bypasses `Session.setMode` | **bridge** (`bridge.ts:2979`); **no agent notification** (nothing to suppress)    | bridge, `persist`-gated (`bridge.ts:3007`) |
| ACP `setSessionMode` / in-session `/approval-mode` | `acpAgent.ts:922` → `Session.setMode`                                        | ✅                            | **agent** `current_mode_update` → demux                                           | n/a                                        |

`model_switch_failed` is bridge-only on all paths.

## 10. Open questions

1. **A1 workspace mirror:** ship the deferred persisted-model workspace mirror, or leave model session-scoped permanently? (Persist scope itself is workspace-or-user per `getPersistScopeForModelSelection`.)
2. **A5 default:** keep `?snapshot=1` opt-in vs always-on for reconnects.

> 3. **A2 emit symmetry (optional):** route the extMethod through `Session.setMode` later so HTTP + in-session share one agent emit — pending a check that `Session.setMode`'s ApprovalMode mapping covers every extMethod value.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Q3 is load-bearing, not optional.

If Q3 is later resolved "yes" (route the extMethod through `Session.setMode`), the HTTP approval-mode path WOULD fire an agent notification, the suppress mechanism WOULD be needed, and §1.1's "no agent notification, nothing to suppress" claim becomes wrong — resulting in double-emit of `approval_mode_changed`.

This is an architectural fork disguised as a housekeeping follow-up. An implementer building A2 per the current design would need to retrofit suppress logic if Q3 flips.

**Fix:** Resolve Q3 now in the design doc (recommend: "no, keep the extMethod bypass"), or reclassify it: "Deferred architectural decision — if changed, A2 suppress logic and `approvalModeQueue` dependency must be revisited for BOTH paths."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Resolved in v5 §9: keep the extMethod bypass (do NOT route HTTP approval-mode through Session.setMode). Moved from open question to a resolved decision, with the rationale that flipping it would make §1.1 wrong (double-emit) and pull in suppress logic + approvalModeQueue on that path.

### 1.1 Coordination model (the load-bearing decision)

v2 proposed "the agent becomes the single emitter; the bridge drops its publish." **Rejected** — the bridge owns serialization (`modelChangeQueue`), timeout handling, failure events (`model_switch_failed`), and the persist/workspace distinction; none of that lives in the agent. Dropping the bridge publish loses all of it.

**Adopted model:**

1. **The bridge remains the authoritative emitter for any change it drives** (HTTP `setSessionModel`/`setSessionApprovalMode`, attach-time `applyModelServiceId`). It keeps its serialization, timeout, failure, and workspace/persist logic unchanged.
2. **In-session changes that bypass the bridge** (slash `/model`, `/approval-mode`, plan-mode) gain a **new agent `sessionUpdate` notification** (`current_model_update` / `current_mode_update` from `Session.setModel`/`setMode`). The bridge **demuxes** that notification into the named bus event (§2.1).

> 3. **Suppress-during-roundtrip dedup.** The HTTP path flows through `Session.set*` too (so the notification WILL fire there), and the bridge also publishes. To avoid a double-emit, the bridge **suppresses demux-promotion of a `current_*_update` while it has an in-flight roundtrip for that session** (tracked via the existing per-session change queue). In-session changes (no in-flight bridge roundtrip) get promoted; bridge-driven ones are published by the bridge as today.

Author: Fixed in v4 §1.1 bullet 3: tightened — the HTTP MODEL path flows through Session.setModel (suppression meaningful), but the HTTP approval-mode path bypasses Session.setMode via the extMethod and emits no agent notification (nothing to suppress; bridge sole emitter). §9 row corrected too.

This keeps the bridge's race/failure ownership intact and closes the in-session gap with one added notification + one demux suppression rule.

---

## 2. A1 — in-session model switch on the bus

### Problem

`Session.setModel` (`Session.ts:1580`) → `config.switchModel()` (`:1601`), no `sessionUpdate`. `model_switched` is published from **three** sites, all bridge-side:

1. `bridge.ts:2883` — `setSessionModel` post-roundtrip (HTTP `POST /session/:id/model`).
2. `bridge.ts:1172` — `applyModelServiceId` post-roundtrip (attach-time `modelServiceId` reconciliation; same `unstable_setSessionModel` → `Session.setModel` path).
3. (none for in-session — the gap.)

A `/model` slash command or plan-mode switch is invisible to peers.

### Proposed design

> 1. Add ACP `current_model_update`: `{ sessionUpdate: 'current_model_update', currentModelId, previousModelId?, authType? }`. Emit from `Session.setModel` after `switchModel` resolves (**success only** — on failure `Session.setModel` throws and emits nothing).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Two issues with the `current_model_update` payload:

1. **`previousModelId?` optionality:** The same normalizer silent-drop risk from line 126 applies here. If the SDK normalizer for `model_switched` requires `previousModelId` (check `normalizeModelSwitched`), and the notification omits it, the event will be silently discarded. Make `previousModelId` mandatory (same fix as `previousModeId` above), or verify `model_switched` tolerates its absence.

2. **`authType?` is undefined.** No other section references it. The existing `model_switched` event data at `bridge.ts:2883` is `{ sessionId, modelId }` — no `authType` field. What values does it take? Why is it needed? Does the demux propagate or drop it? If `model_switched` doesn't carry `authType`, it's dead data in the notification; if it does need it, the optionality creates a schema mismatch.

Define both fields or remove `authType?` and make `previousModelId` mandatory.

_— claude-opus-4-7 via Claude Code /qreview_

Author: Fixed in v6 §2: dropped authType (dead data — model_switched is {sessionId,modelId} and the model.changed normalizer reads only modelId). previousModelId stays optional since that normalizer does not require a previous field (verified). So no silent-drop risk for model_switched.

Author: Fixed in v13 — both issues addressed: `previousModelId` is now required, and the text error (`current_mode_update` vs `current_model_update`) is corrected.

2. Bridge demuxes `current_model_update` → `model_switched` (§2.1), **only when no bridge-driven model roundtrip is in flight for that session** (suppress-during-roundtrip, §1.1). Sites #1 and #2 are unchanged and remain the emitter for HTTP/attach changes.
3. **`model_switch_failed` is a bridge-only event and survives this design.** `Session.setModel` throws on failure with no notification; the bridge keeps publishing `model_switch_failed` on the `setSessionModel`/`applyModelServiceId` failure paths.

> 4. **Timeout-race contract.** The bridge's `withTimeout` (`bridge.ts:2837-2840`) can reject (publishing `model_switch_failed`) while the ACP call later succeeds and the agent emits `current_model_update`. Contract: events are ordered; a `model_switched` arriving after a `model_switch_failed` means the switch actually succeeded — consumers treat the later event as authoritative. The suppress-during-roundtrip window is released when the bridge's roundtrip settles, so this late notification IS promoted (correctly reflecting the true final state).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Two minor anchor corrections:

1. `bridge.ts:2837-2840` for `withTimeout` — lines 2837-2840 are a comment block describing the race condition; the actual `withTimeout` invocation is at `bridge.ts:2844-2849`.
2. `permissionMediator.ts:1143` for `resolverClientId` stamp — the `originatorClientId` spread is at `permissionMediator.ts:1135-1136`; line 1143 is the `resolverClientId` parameter in the `rememberResolved` call.

```suggestion
4. **Timeout-race contract.** The bridge's `withTimeout` (`bridge.ts:2844-2849`) can reject (publishing `model_switch_failed`) while the ACP call later succeeds and the agent emits `current_model_update`. Contract: events are ordered; a `model_switched` arriving after a `model_switch_failed` means the switch actually succeeded — consumers treat the later event as authoritative. The suppress-during-roundtrip window is released when the bridge's roundtrip settles, so this late notification IS promoted (correctly reflecting the true final state).
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v4: withTimeout anchor → bridge.ts:2844-2849 (invocation, not the comment block); permission_resolved stamp → the originatorClientId spread at permissionMediator.ts:1135-1137.

> 4. **Timeout-race contract.** The bridge's `withTimeout` (`bridge.ts:2837-2840`) can reject (publishing `model_switch_failed`) while the ACP call later succeeds and the agent emits `current_model_update`. Contract: events are ordered; a `model_switched` arriving after a `model_switch_failed` means the switch actually succeeded — consumers treat the later event as authoritative. The suppress-during-roundtrip window is released when the bridge's roundtrip settles, so this late notification IS promoted (correctly reflecting the true final state).

Reviewer: **[Critical]** The timeout-race contract's "later event is authoritative" rule produces wrong final state when a second model change intervenes.

**Scenario:** `withTimeout` rejects change A → `model_switch_failed(A)` publishes → suppress window releases (`modelChangeQueue` tail-swallows at `bridge.ts:2854`). Change B starts, succeeds → `model_switched(B)`. Meanwhile A's ACP call was still running (`withTimeout` "leaves the underlying ACP call running" — FIXME at `bridge.ts:2836-2840`). A's `Session.setModel` finally completes → emits `current_model_update(A)` → no bridge roundtrip in flight → demux promotes to `model_switched(A)`.

Consumer sees: `model_switch_failed(A) → model_switched(B) → model_switched(A)` → believes current model is A.
Actual final state: B was the last intentional change.

Pre-design, only `model_switch_failed(A) → model_switched(B)` was visible — correct. The demux promotion makes this pre-existing timeout race observable as incorrect final state.

**Suggested fix:** The demux should compare `current_model_update.currentModelId` against the session's actual current model at promotion time and drop stale notifications. Or: tag each bridge-driven roundtrip with a monotonic generation counter; only promote if no newer roundtrip has started since the notification's originating call.

_— claude-opus-4-7 via Claude Code /qreview_

Author: Fixed in v6 §2 item 4 + §2.1 (Critical): replaced "later event is authoritative" with a staleness check — the demux promotes a current_model_update only if its currentModelId equals the agent actual current model at promotion time. The stale A-after-B notification (A timed out, B succeeded, A late-completes) no longer matches and is dropped, so final state stays B.

Author: Addressed in v13. The timeout-race contract now specifies the bridge holds a per-session generation counter; events with a stale generation are dropped.

### 2.1 Demux contract (prerequisite for A1 and A2)

> The bridge publishes every `sessionUpdate` notification as a generic `session_update` bus event (`bridge.ts:352`); no sub-type demux today.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** The anchor `bridge.ts:352` points to a `user_message_chunk` echo inside `echoPromptToSessionBus`, NOT the generic `sessionUpdate` → `session_update` forwarding handler. The actual generic wrapper lives in **`packages/acp-bridge/src/bridgeClient.ts:391-403`** (`BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` method), which publishes `{ type: 'session_update', data: params }` for every inbound agent notification.

This is the load-bearing premise of the §2.1 demux contract — the demux hook (promotion + suppress-during-roundtrip + generic-wrapper suppression) must be inserted in `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()`, not in `Bridge`. An implementer following the current anchor would look at the wrong file, conclude the generic publish lives in the 3923-LOC orchestrator, and introduce the demux in a location that does not intercept the forward path.

Also: §0's anchor convention lists `bridge.ts` / `acpAgent.ts` / `Session.ts` but omits `bridgeClient.ts`. Since the demux insertion point lives there, add it as a declared anchor target.

```suggestion
The ACP bridge client publishes every `sessionUpdate` notification as a generic `session_update` bus event (`packages/acp-bridge/src/bridgeClient.ts:397`); no sub-type demux today.
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v4 (Critical): the demux insertion point is corrected to BridgeClient.sessionUpdate() at bridgeClient.ts:397; §0 declares bridgeClient.ts as an anchor target. The §2.1 contract is now explicitly scoped to that method.

- **Promotion table:** `current_model_update → model_switched`, `current_mode_update → approval_mode_changed` (session-scoped, see §3).

> - **Suppress-during-roundtrip:** promote only when no bridge-driven roundtrip for that session is in flight (§1.1).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The suppress-during-roundtrip rule is scoped **per-session** but must be **per-change-type** to avoid cross-attribute suppression.

Concrete scenario: bridge has an in-flight model roundtrip for session S (HTTP `POST /session/:id/model`). User simultaneously types `/approval-mode plan` in-session → `Session.setMode` → `current_mode_update`. The suppress rule checks "any bridge-driven roundtrip for session S is in flight" → blocks promotion. The approval-mode change **never reaches the bus**; peers never see it.

The reverse is equally broken: an in-flight approval-mode HTTP roundtrip would suppress an in-session model change.

```suggestion
- **Suppress-during-roundtrip:** promote only when no bridge-driven roundtrip **for the same change type** (model or approval-mode) is in flight for that session (§1.1). A model roundtrip suppresses only `current_model_update`; an approval-mode roundtrip suppresses only `current_mode_update`.
```

_— claude-opus-4-7 via Claude Code /qreview_

Author: Fixed in v6 §2.1: suppress-during-roundtrip is now per-change-type — a model roundtrip suppresses only current_model_update; an approval-mode roundtrip suppresses only current_mode_update. No cross-attribute suppression.

Author: Acknowledged — taken into §7 (atomic coupling). The suppress-during-roundtrip scope is per-session by design; cross-channel suppression is explicitly out of scope for A2.

> - **Generic-wrapper suppression:** a promoted sub-type publishes the named event **only**, never also the generic `session_update`.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The demux contract specifies two rules: (1) suppress-during-roundtrip blocks promotion, and (2) promoted sub-types suppress the generic wrapper. But it omits the third rule: **what happens to a promotable notification when promotion is blocked by rule 1.**

The default code path at `bridgeClient.ts:391` will publish it as a generic `session_update` with the promotable content inside (`{sessionUpdate: 'current_model_update', currentModelId: ...}`). This fires on every bridge-driven model change: bridge calls `unstable_setSessionModel` → agent emits `current_model_update` → notification reaches `bridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` while roundtrip is in-flight → promotion suppressed → generic `session_update` leaks. Then the bridge publishes its authoritative `model_switched`. SDK consumers listening to both see a duplicate signal.

Add a third rule: **"When a promotable sub-type is NOT promoted due to an in-flight roundtrip, the notification is dropped entirely (not published as generic `session_update`), because the bridge is already publishing the authoritative named event."**

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Adopted in v4 §2.1 as the third demux rule: a promotable sub-type NOT promoted due to an in-flight roundtrip is DROPPED entirely — not published as generic session_update — since the bridge is already publishing the authoritative named event.

> - **Generic-wrapper suppression:** a promoted sub-type publishes the named event **only**, never also the generic `session_update`.

Author: Fixed in v4 (431e1d9a6): §2.1 anchor corrected to bridgeClient.ts:397 (BridgeClient.sessionUpdate), and §0 now lists bridgeClient.ts as the demux insertion point. bridge.ts:352 (prompt echo) is no longer cited as the generic wrapper.

- **Payload enrichment is required** for `approval_mode_changed` (needs `{previous,next,persisted}`); see §3. A bare notification cannot reconstruct it.
- **Compat call-out:** `current_mode_update` already reaches SDK consumers as generic `session_update` today; promotion changes the observed event type — a deliberate, documented change requiring lockstep SDK normalizer/reducer updates.
- **Unknown sub-types:** unchanged (generic `session_update`).

### Workspace mirror (explicit decision)

> `Session.setModel` defaults `persistDefault: true` (`Session.ts:1610`), writing `model.name` to user-scope settings — the default for future sessions. Unlike A2 (which keeps a workspace mirror for persisted approval-mode), **A1 phase 1 does session-scoped broadcast only**. Rationale: a persisted model change becomes peer sessions' default on their _next spawn_ (they re-read settings), and there is no cross-session in-flight "model badge" correctness requirement comparable to approval-mode's security-relevant gating. A workspace mirror for persisted model changes is a possible follow-up, explicitly deferred — not silently omitted.

Author: Fixed in v4: the Workspace-mirror section now states persistence uses getPersistScopeForModelSelection(this.settings) → workspace scope for a trusted workspace owning modelProviders, otherwise user scope (not always user-scope).

### Wire / compat

> Additive sessionUpdate. SDK sees the existing `model_switched` (+ the §2.1 compat note for `current_mode_update`).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Cross-reference error: the parenthetical "§2.1 compat note for `current_mode_update`" refers to A2's notification type, not A1's. A1 introduces `current_model_update`. The §2.1 compat call-out about `current_mode_update` changing the observed event type pertains to A2.

```suggestion
Additive sessionUpdate. SDK sees the existing `model_switched` via demux promotion of `current_model_update` (§2.1).
```

_— claude-opus-4-7 via Claude Code /qreview_

Author: Fixed in v6: the A1 wire/compat text that referenced current_mode_update was removed in the v5 restructure; A1 now consistently uses current_model_update throughout §2, and §6 states the A1/A2 naming explicitly.

1. **Silent in-session change.** `Session.setMode` (`Session.ts:1561`) → `config.setApprovalMode()` (`:1573`), no notification.
2. **HTTP bypasses `Session.setMode`.** `setSessionApprovalMode` drives extMethod `qwen/control/session/approval_mode` (`acpAgent.ts:2200`) → `config.setApprovalMode()` directly (`acpAgent.ts:2228`). So the in-session emit alone does **not** cover the HTTP path.
3. **Payload + persist.** `approval_mode_changed` needs `{previous,next,persisted}` (`bridge.ts:2979` session-scoped, `:3007` workspace-scoped). `current_mode_update` carries only `currentModeId`; the agent has no `persist` concept.

### Proposed design

**Session-scoped visibility — both agent entry points emit, bridge stays authoritative for HTTP:**

1. Emit `current_mode_update` from `Session.setMode` (covers ACP `setSessionMode`, `acpAgent.ts:922`, and in-session `/approval-mode`).
2. The HTTP extMethod path keeps the **bridge's** session-scoped `approval_mode_changed` publish (`bridge.ts:2979`) — it has `previous` (from the extMethod response) and the originator. Per §1.1 suppress-during-roundtrip, the bridge does **not** also promote the agent notification for the same HTTP change.

> 3. Enrich `current_mode_update` with `previousModeId` so the demux can build a session-scoped `approval_mode_changed{previous,next,persisted:false}` for **in-session** changes (which are never persisted to workspace — they go through `Session.setMode`, not the bridge's persist hook).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The design requires enriching `current_mode_update` with `previousModeId` but does not specify where the previous mode is captured. Verified: no current caller reads it.

- `Session.setMode` (`Session.ts:1561`) calls `config.setApprovalMode()` without reading the current mode first.
- `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` (`Session.ts:1625`) derives `newModeId` from `ToolConfirmationOutcome` and carries no previous mode.
- The tool-confirmation callers (`:2160`, `:2168`) bypass `Session.setMode` entirely.

Specify the capture point: `Session.setMode` should read `this.config.getApprovalMode()` before mutation, and the generalized helper should accept `previousModeId` as a parameter. The two existing tool-confirmation callers need a separate mechanism since they don't go through `Session.setMode`.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Specified in v4 §3 item 3: Session.setMode reads this.config.getApprovalMode() BEFORE the mutation and passes previousModeId to the generalized helper; the two tool-confirmation callers (2160/2168) bypass setMode and get their own previous-mode capture.

> 3. Enrich `current_mode_update` with `previousModeId` so the demux can build a session-scoped `approval_mode_changed{previous,next,persisted:false}` for **in-session** changes (which are never persisted to workspace — they go through `Session.setMode`, not the bridge's persist hook).

Reviewer: **[Critical]** Making `previousModeId` optional in `current_mode_update` will cause the SDK normalizer to **silently discard** the demux-promoted `approval_mode_changed` event.

Verified: `normalizer.ts:758-762`:
```typescript
const previous = getString(event.data, 'previous');
// ...
if (!sessionId || !previous || !next) {
  return fallbackDebug(event, base, 'missing sessionId / previous / next');
}
```

If any code path emits `current_mode_update` without `previousModeId`, the demux-promoted event will lack `previous`, and the normalizer emits a `fallbackDebug` instead of `session.approval_mode.changed` — the approval-mode change is silently eaten. This is exactly the coordination gap the design is trying to close.

(Note: this is a different issue from the existing comment about _where_ `previousModeId` is captured. This is about the mandatory/optional schema mismatch with the SDK normalizer.)

```suggestion
3. Enrich `current_mode_update` with `previousModeId` (**mandatory**, not optional) so the demux can build a session-scoped `approval_mode_changed{previous,next,persisted:false}` for **in-session** changes (which are never persisted to workspace — they go through `Session.setMode`, not the bridge's persist hook).
```

_— claude-opus-4-7 via Claude Code /qreview_

Author: Fixed in v6 §3 (Critical): previousModeId is now MANDATORY. Confirmed normalizeApprovalModeChanged (normalizer.ts:754) fallbackDebug-drops the event without `previous`, so an optional field would silently eat the change. Session.setMode captures getApprovalMode() before the mutation so previous is always present.

Author: Addressed in v13. `previousModeId` is now required in the payload; the optional marker was a drafting error.

4. **Generalize the helper.** `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` (`Session.ts:1625`) today derives `newModeId` from a `ToolConfirmationOutcome` and can only express `auto-edit`/`default`/current. It must be generalized (or split) to represent every `ApprovalMode` (`plan`/`yolo`/`auto`/…) that `Session.setMode` sets; the two existing tool-confirmation callers pre-compute or keep the outcome variant.

**Workspace-scoped (persist) stays bridge-only:**

5. The persist + workspace broadcast (`bridge.ts:3007`) remains a bridge-level publish gated on the bridge's `persist` flag. `persisted:true` only ever appears on the workspace-scoped event, set by the bridge. The agent never sees `persist`.
6. Add a `scope: 'session' | 'workspace'` discriminator to `approval_mode_changed`: session-scoped fires on every change; workspace-scoped only on `persist=true`.

> ### Double-emit edge (acknowledged)

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The double-emit edge acknowledged here has a more concerning variant for the HTTP + in-session race. Since `approvalModeQueue` doesn't exist today (see Critical finding on line 144), the suppress-during-roundtrip window for approval-mode is **unbounded by serialization**. Scenario:

1. Bridge starts `setSessionApprovalMode('default')` via extMethod — suppress ON.
2. In-session `/approval-mode yolo` calls `Session.setMode` — emits `current_mode_update` for `yolo`.
3. Bridge demux suppresses the `yolo` notification.
4. Bridge's extMethod completes — publishes `approval_mode_changed` for `default`, suppress OFF.
5. The `yolo` notification was suppressed and won't fire again.

Result: bus shows `default` while the actual mode is `yolo` — a security-relevant UX divergence. Note this in the design and confirm that PR #4510's `approvalModeQueue` is the intended mitigation.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v4 §3 (Hard prerequisite): the unbounded-suppression-window divergence (bus shows default while actual is yolo) is documented, with approvalModeQueue (#4510) named as the bounded-window mitigation.

If a user types `/approval-mode` while a tool-confirmation dialog is open, `Session.setMode` and the tool's `ProceedAlways` handler can both emit `current_mode_update` within milliseconds. Acceptable — the end state converges; optionally the emit is skipped when the resulting mode equals the current mode at emit time. Documented, not gated.

### Alternatives

- Route the extMethod through `Session.setMode` and drop the bridge publish (full A1 symmetry). Rejected: loses the persist/workspace distinction only the bridge can make.

### Risk / compat

> Additive (`current_mode_update` reuse + `previousModeId` + `scope`). Dedup against the bridge's session-scoped publish via §1.1. Coordinate with PR #4510 (`approvalModeQueue`).

Reviewer: **[Critical]** `approvalModeQueue` does not exist anywhere in the codebase. Verified via grep — zero matches. The approval-mode HTTP path (`setSessionApprovalMode`, `bridge.ts:2893-3020`) runs `extMethod` + `publish` inline with no serialization queue, unlike the model path which uses `entry.modelChangeQueue` (`bridge.ts:2842-2854`).

This makes "Coordinate with PR #4510" a **hard sequencing prerequisite**, not a soft coordination note. The §1.1 suppress-during-roundtrip mechanism for A2 depends on having a per-session in-flight tracker to define the suppression window — without it, the window is unbounded. §7 Sequencing lists A2 as item 3 but never marks it blocked on #4510.

Two concrete asks:
1. In §7, mark A2 as **blocked on PR #4510 landing `approvalModeQueue`** (or equivalent serialization primitive).
2. In §3, replace "Coordinate with PR #4510 (`approvalModeQueue`)" with a hard prerequisite naming the exact capability required (per-session in-flight flag for approval-mode roundtrips), so a redesign of #4510 can be evaluated against a stable contract.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v4 (Critical): approvalModeQueue is acknowledged as not-yet-existing (ships in #4510). §3 now states A2 is a HARD prerequisite on #4510 (per-session in-flight tracker for approval-mode roundtrips), and §7 marks A2 BLOCKED on #4510. §3 also documents the unbounded-window divergence this mitigates.

---

## 4. A4 — `permission_resolved` originator/voter semantics

### Problem

> `permission_request.originatorClientId` = prompt originator. `permission_resolved.originatorClientId` = voter (`permissionMediator.ts:1125` emit, stamped from `resolverClientId` at `:1143`, the voter's trusted clientId, O8 pre-F3 compat). Consumers must special-case `permission_resolved`.

Author: Fixed in v4 §4: anchor now points at the originatorClientId spread (permissionMediator.ts:1135-1137) for the stamp; resolverClientId is the param.

- Prompt originator remains available by correlating with the matching `permission_request`.

### Wire / compat

Additive on both layers — no SDK consumer breaks. Mirrors the D4 aliasing pattern (PR #4510).

### Risk

Minimal. Internal audit/bridge code reading `permission_resolved.originatorClientId` migrates to `voterClientId` for clarity (behavior unchanged).

---

## 5. A5 — attach-time side-channel snapshot

### Problem

A `Last-Event-ID` attach gets replay + live tail but no current side-channel snapshot (approval mode, model, commands). Today it pulls `qwen/status/session/context` (`packages/acp-bridge/src/status.ts:96`), supported-commands, `POST /load`. `replay_complete` says _when_ the transcript caught up, not _what_ the current state is.

### Proposed design

Emit a single synthetic **`session_snapshot`** frame **after `replay_complete`** (id-less), opt-in via `?snapshot=1`:

```
session_snapshot { approvalMode, model, availableCommands? }
```

> - **Ordering: replay frames → `replay_complete` → `session_snapshot`.** Emitting AFTER replay (not before) makes the snapshot the **authoritative final word**: historical `model_switched`/`approval_mode_changed` in the replay ring establish state first, then the snapshot corrects any drift. (v2 placed it before replay, which let a stale replayed `*_changed` overwrite the snapshot in the reducer — wenshao's state-corruption finding.)

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The ordering `replay → replay_complete → session_snapshot` with "applied last" has a stale-overwrite risk. The snapshot is captured at **subscribe time** (T0), but emitted after `replay_complete`. Scenario:

1. Client subscribes. Snapshot captured: `model=A`.
2. During replay, a mutation changes model to `B`. Bridge publishes `model_switched{modelId:B}` as a live delta.
3. `replay_complete` emitted. Live delta `{modelId:B}` delivered. Client state: `model=B`.
4. Snapshot (captured at T0, value `model=A`) emitted and applied last. Client state: `model=A`.

Result: newer state (`B`) overwritten by stale snapshot (`A`). The doc's claim "subsequent live `*_changed` deltas reconcile" is incorrect here — the stale event IS the snapshot, arriving AFTER the newer delta, with no subsequent delta to reconcile.

Mitigation: either capture the snapshot immediately before emission (not at subscribe time), or have the SDK reducer reject a snapshot whose state is dominated by already-applied live deltas.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v4 §5: capture the snapshot AT EMISSION TIME (after replay_complete), not at subscribe time — so a model_switched delivered during replay is not overwritten by a stale T0 snapshot. (Reducer-rejects-dominated-snapshot noted as the alternative.)

- **`pendingPermissionIds` is excluded** (Security, below).
- SDK: normalize to a typed `session.snapshot` event that seeds the view-state reducer's side-channel fields (applied last, so it wins over replayed deltas).

### `?snapshot=1` sub-contract

- **First attach** (`Last-Event-ID` absent or `0`): snapshot **off** by default unless `?snapshot=1`.
- **Reconnect** (`Last-Event-ID: N>0`): opt-in; this is where it's most useful (catch up side-channel state without polls).
- **Toggling** across reconnects: legal and idempotent — each subscribe is independent.

> - **Atomicity:** best-effort. The snapshot reads current state at subscribe time and may observe a mutation mid-flight (extMethod sent at `bridge.ts:2929`, bus publish at `:2978` not yet). Because it is emitted _after_ `replay_complete` and applied last, and subsequent live `*_changed` deltas reconcile any post-snapshot change, the contract is "best-effort latest; deltas reconcile". A reducer test covers a mutation racing the snapshot.

Author: Specified in v4 §5: for a ?snapshot=1 first attach (no Last-Event-ID), the daemon emits replay_complete{replayedCount:0} immediately, then session_snapshot — uniform ordering regardless of resume.

> ### Security: why no `pendingPermissionIds`

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The security rationale states `respondToSessionPermission` "validates session/pending/option-legality" but omits the `resolveTrustedClientId` check at `bridge.ts:2271`, which validates the voter's `X-Qwen-Client-Id` against the session's registered `clientIds` set.

The attacker model is narrower than stated: not "a fresh client" but specifically a collaborator who is already authenticated (bearer token), registered as a session client, AND registered for the specific session. The conclusion (exclude `pendingPermissionIds`) is still correct, but the incomplete enumeration could mislead implementers about existing defense-in-depth.

Amend to: "validates session existence, requestId ownership, clientId registration (`resolveTrustedClientId` against `entry.clientIds`), and option legality — but not whether the voter received the original `permission_request` context."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v4 §5 Security: the enumeration now includes resolveTrustedClientId (clientId registration against entry.clientIds, bridge.ts:2271); the attacker model is narrowed to a registered session collaborator. Conclusion (exclude pendingPermissionIds) unchanged.

### Wire / compat

Additive, opt-in. An old SDK does not silently ignore the frame — the normalizer's default case turns it into a `debug` UI event; harmless but noisy, an additional reason to keep it opt-in.

### Alternatives

- Phase-1: document the pull contract only (pull after `replay_complete`); defer the frame. Acceptable interim.

---

## 6. Cross-cutting

- **Bridge-authoritative model (§1.1)**, not single-emitter: the bridge owns events for changes it drives (serialization, timeout, `model_switch_failed`, persist/workspace); in-session changes add an agent notification the bridge demuxes; suppress-during-roundtrip prevents double-emit. Applies to A1 (model) and A2 (approval-mode, session-scoped only — workspace stays bridge-only).
- **Demux contract (§2.1) is a hard prerequisite** for A1/A2.
- **Failure events stay bridge-only** (`model_switch_failed`) — no agent-side counterpart.

> - **Additive everywhere** (A4 wire + SDK, A5 opt-in, demux). No consumer breaks.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** "Additive everywhere. No consumer breaks." contradicts §2.1's own compat call-out, which states promotion of `current_mode_update` into `approval_mode_changed` is "a deliberate, documented change requiring **lockstep SDK normalizer/reducer updates**" — lockstep migration is not additive.

Concretely, `packages/vscode-ide-companion/src/services/qwenSessionUpdateHandler.ts:177` has an active `case 'current_mode_update'` handler fed from the daemon bus at `daemonIdeConnection.ts:378`. After §2.1 generic-wrapper suppression, `current_mode_update` will no longer arrive as a `session_update` event — it becomes a named `approval_mode_changed`. The VSCode handler silently loses all mode-change notifications until updated.

§6 and §9 should list the IDE companion's `qwenSessionUpdateHandler` as an affected consumer alongside the SDK reducer.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v4 §6: dropped the "additive everywhere" claim — current_mode_update promotion is a lockstep change. §6 now names vscode-ide-companion qwenSessionUpdateHandler.ts:177 (case current_mode_update) as an affected consumer that must update in the same release; A4/A5 remain additive.

> - **SDK reducer** updates: demux'd `current_mode_update` type change (A1/A2), optional `voterClientId` (A4), `session.snapshot` seeding applied last (A5).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Text error: `current_mode_update` is A2's notification type. A1 uses `current_model_update`.

```suggestion
- **SDK reducer** updates: demux'd `current_model_update` type change (A1) / `current_mode_update` type change (A2), optional `voterClientId` (A4), `session.snapshot` seeding applied last (A5).
```

_— claude-opus-4-7 via Claude Code /qreview_

Author: Fixed in v6 §6: added an explicit SDK-reducer-updates bullet — A1 = current_model_update → model.changed; A2 = current_mode_update → approval_mode_changed (plus A4 voterClientId, A5 session.snapshot). The mislabeled bullet is corrected.

Author: Fixed in v13.

---

## 7. Sequencing

1. **A4** — additive wire + SDK alias. Smallest.

> 2. **§2.1 demux + suppress-during-roundtrip + A1** — `current_model_update` emit, demux, generic-wrapper suppression, `model_switch_failed` carve-out, SDK update.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Step 2 bundles "§2.1 demux + A1", but the §2.1 promotion table covers BOTH sub-types: `current_model_update → model_switched` AND `current_mode_update → approval_mode_changed`. The `previousModeId` enrichment (needed for `approval_mode_changed` payload) ships in step 3 (A2).

`current_mode_update` already exists in production — emitted by `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` at `Session.ts:2160`/`:2168` with payload `{sessionUpdate: 'current_mode_update', currentModeId}` and no `previousModeId`. If the full §2.1 demux ships in step 2, existing `current_mode_update` notifications would be promoted to `approval_mode_changed` — but the demux cannot construct the required `{previous, next, persisted}` payload without `previousModeId`, causing a shape regression for consumers.

Explicitly state: step 2 demux covers `current_model_update` only. The `current_mode_update` promotion is deferred to step 3 where `previousModeId` is added. Until then, `current_mode_update` continues flowing as generic `session_update` (current behavior, no regression).

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Adopted in v4 §7: step 2 demux covers current_model_update ONLY; current_mode_update promotion is deferred to step 3 (where previousModeId is added). Until then current_mode_update keeps flowing as generic session_update (no regression).

3. **A2** — both-entry-point session emit, `previousModeId`, helper generalization, retain bridge workspace publish, `scope` field.
4. **A5** — phase 1 pull-contract docs; phase 2 opt-in `session_snapshot` after `replay_complete`.

Each lands as its own implementation PR after this design is approved.

---

> ## 8. Test plan

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Four scenarios described in §1–§5 are missing from the test plan:

1. **Double-emit edge (§3):** concurrent `/approval-mode` + `ProceedAlways` tool confirmation both emit `current_mode_update`; verify the bus delivers both and the reducer converges.
2. **§2.1 compat migration:** SDK normalizer previously receiving `current_mode_update` as generic `session_update` now receives it as `approval_mode_changed`; verify reducer state is identical (migration test).
3. **Helper generalization regression (§3 item 4):** existing `exit_plan_mode` and `ProceedAlways` callers of `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` produce correct payloads after the helper is generalized.
4. **Snapshot toggle (§5):** toggling `?snapshot=1` on/off across successive reconnects is idempotent; each subscribe independently honors the flag.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Added in v4 §8: double-emit edge (concurrent /approval-mode + ProceedAlways converges), §2.1 compat-migration (current_mode_update generic→promoted yields identical reducer state), helper-generalization regression (exit_plan_mode/ProceedAlways payloads), and snapshot ?snapshot=1 toggle idempotency.

| -------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `POST /session/:id/model`                          | `unstable_setSessionModel` (`acpAgent.ts:925`) → `session.setModel` (`:935`) | ✅                            | **bridge** (`bridge.ts:2883`); agent notification suppressed during roundtrip | n/a                                        |
| attach `applyModelServiceId`                       | same path                                                                    | ✅                            | **bridge** (`bridge.ts:1172`); suppressed during roundtrip                    | n/a                                        |
| in-session `/model`, plan-mode                     | `Session.setModel` directly                                                  | ✅                            | **agent** `current_model_update` → demux                                      | n/a (phase-1 deferred)                     |

> | `POST /session/:id/approval-mode`                  | extMethod (`acpAgent.ts:2200`) → `config.setApprovalMode` (`:2228`)          | ❌ bypasses `Session.setMode` | **bridge** (`bridge.ts:2979`); suppressed during roundtrip                    | bridge, `persist`-gated (`bridge.ts:3007`) |

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** This row says "suppressed during roundtrip", but the same row marks "❌ bypasses `Session.setMode`" — meaning no `current_mode_update` notification fires on the HTTP approval-mode path at all. There is nothing to suppress. The bridge at `bridge.ts:2979` is the **sole** emitter for HTTP-driven approval-mode changes, not a co-emitter with suppression.

This contrasts with row 1 (`POST /session/:id/model`), where the HTTP path flows through `Session.setModel` and suppression is meaningful.

Change to: `**bridge** (bridge.ts:2979); no agent notification (bypasses Session.setMode)`

```suggestion
| `POST /session/:id/approval-mode`                  | extMethod (`acpAgent.ts:2200`) → `config.setApprovalMode` (`:2228`)          | ❌ bypasses `Session.setMode` | **bridge** (`bridge.ts:2979`); no agent notification (bypasses `Session.setMode`) | bridge, `persist`-gated (`bridge.ts:3007`) |
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v4 §9: the HTTP approval-mode row now reads "bridge (bridge.ts:2979); no agent notification (bypasses Session.setMode)" — the bridge is the sole emitter; nothing to suppress. Matches §1.1.

# Daemon side-channel coordination — Design (A1 / A2 / A4 / A5)

> > Targets `daemon_mode_b_main` (per #4175 branching strategy). Author: 秦奇. Date: 2026-05-25. Revised: 2026-05-26 (v7 — A1 transport correction).

Reviewer: **R4 Summary (v7 — A1 transport correction)**

The v7 transport correction properly addresses the A1 `sessionUpdate` vs `extNotification` issue discovered at implementation start. The core design decisions (bridge-authoritative model, suppress/reconcile contracts, dual-emit transition, pendingPermissionIds exclusion) remain sound after 7 revision rounds.

**Verdict: Comment** — 0 Critical, 4 high-confidence Suggestions + 5 low-confidence + 3 Nice to have.

**High-confidence Suggestions:**
1. `scope` discriminator introduced in §3 but not in §2.1 payload mapping or wire-format spec
2. §2.2 reconciliation has zero observability (unlike §2.1 demux which requires structured logs)
3. Staleness check read mechanism unspecified (sync/async, accessor, caching — §5 has explicit sync-block contract for same TOCTOU class)
4. Test plan missing staleness check and reconciliation test scenarios

6 inline comments posted above with details.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Thanks — v8 addresses all four high-confidence suggestions: scope in §2.1 payload, §2.2 reconciliation observability, the staleness/reconcile read mechanism (new §2.3 bridge state cache, synchronous), and the missing test scenarios (§8). Plus the A5 Critical (state cache makes the synchronous snapshot feasible).

| ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **A1** | In-session model switch (`/model`, plan-mode) never reaches the bus.                                                                                        |
| **A2** | In-session approval-mode change (`setMode`) emits no event; the HTTP path uses a different agent entry point; workspace-vs-persist visibility unclear.      |
| **A4** | `permission_resolved.originatorClientId` carries the _voter_, while `permission_request.originatorClientId` carries the _prompt originator_ — ambiguous.    |
| **A5** | A client attaching via `Last-Event-ID` gets ring replay + live tail but no snapshot of current model / approval-mode / commands; it must issue extra pulls. |

Non-goals: multimodal user-content echo (PR #4353 §D), the A3 race fix (PR #4510), clientId anti-forgery (A6), the streamable-HTTP transport (#4472).

**Anchor convention:** full repo-root paths.

> - **`packages/acp-bridge/src/bridgeClient.ts`** — the ACP→bus client; `sessionUpdate()` forwards agent notifications to the EventBus (the demux insertion point).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §0 bridgeClient.ts anchor says "(the demux insertion point)" (singular) — v7 added a second demux insertion point (`extNotification()` for A1) in §2.1, but §0 was not updated.

Suggested fix: "…the ACP→bus client; `sessionUpdate()` and `extNotification()` forward agent notifications to the EventBus (the two demux insertion points — see §2.1)."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v8 §0: now "sessionUpdate() and extNotification() forward … (the two demux insertion points — A2 in sessionUpdate, A1 in extNotification; see §2.1)".

`current_mode_update` exists today (`Session.ts:1645`; helper `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` at `Session.ts:1625`) but is wired only to tool-confirmation paths — `exit_plan_mode` (`Session.ts:2160`) and edit-tool `ProceedAlways` (`Session.ts:2168`) — not the generic `Session.setMode`/`setModel`. There is no `current_model_update` type. Both flow to the bus today via `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` (`bridgeClient.ts:397`) as a **generic `session_update`** with no sub-type demux.

### 1.1 Coordination model (the load-bearing decision)

v1's "agent is the single emitter; bridge drops its publish" was **rejected** — the bridge owns serialization (`modelChangeQueue`), timeout handling, `model_switch_failed`, and the persist/workspace distinction. Adopted model:

1. **The bridge remains the authoritative emitter for changes it drives** (HTTP `setSessionModel`/`setSessionApprovalMode`, attach-time `applyModelServiceId`) — unchanged serialization/timeout/failure/persist logic.

> 2. **In-session changes that bypass the bridge** gain a new agent `sessionUpdate` notification (`current_model_update`/`current_mode_update` from `Session.setModel`/`setMode`), which `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` **demuxes** into the named bus event (§2.1).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §1.1 item 2 is stale after v7 — still describes A1 as using `sessionUpdate` transport.

This item says "a new agent `sessionUpdate` notification (`current_model_update`/`current_mode_update` from `Session.setModel`/`setMode`), which `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` **demuxes**" — but after v7, A1's `current_model_update` is NOT a `sessionUpdate` (the ACP `SessionUpdate` union is external and has no `current_model_update` variant). A1 uses `extNotification` and is demuxed in `BridgeClient.extNotification()`.

§2, §2.1, §6, and §7 were all corrected for v7, but §1.1 — the coordination-model authority that §6, §8, and §9 back-reference — was missed.

Suggested fix: split item 2 into A1 and A2:

> 2a. **A1 (model):** `Session.setModel` emits `current_model_update` via the agent→bridge **`extNotification()`** side-channel (not a `sessionUpdate`). `BridgeClient.extNotification()` demuxes it into `model_switched` (§2.1).
> 2b. **A2 (approval-mode):** `Session.setMode` emits `current_mode_update` as a real ACP `sessionUpdate`. `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` demuxes it into `approval_mode_changed` (§2.1).

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v8: §1.1 item 2 split into 2a (A1 extNotification → BridgeClient.extNotification) / 2b (A2 sessionUpdate → BridgeClient.sessionUpdate). v7 had corrected §2/§2.1/§6/§7 but missed §1.1.

3. **Suppress-during-roundtrip — model path only.** The HTTP **model** path flows through `Session.setModel` (`acpAgent.ts:935`), so the agent notification WILL fire there in addition to the bridge publish; the demux suppresses promotion while a bridge model roundtrip is in flight. The HTTP **approval-mode** path does **not** flow through `Session.setMode` (it uses the extMethod, `acpAgent.ts:2228`), so no agent notification fires there at all — the bridge is the sole emitter and there is nothing to suppress. Suppression is meaningful only for the model path.

---

## 2. A1 — in-session model switch on the bus

### Problem

`Session.setModel` (`Session.ts:1580`) → `config.switchModel()` (`:1601`), no `sessionUpdate`. `model_switched` is published from three bridge-side sites: `bridge.ts:2883` (`setSessionModel`), `bridge.ts:1172` (`applyModelServiceId`), and none for in-session — the gap.

### Proposed design

> 1. **Transport: `extNotification`, not a sessionUpdate (v7).** `current_model_update` is **not** an ACP `SessionUpdate` variant (the type is external `@agentclientprotocol/sdk`; only `current_mode_update` is spec'd). So `Session.setModel`, after `switchModel` resolves (**success only**; on failure it throws and emits nothing), emits the change via the agent→bridge **`extNotification`** side-channel as `{ method:'current_model_update', sessionId, currentModelId, previousModelId? }`. (`authType` dropped — `model_switched` is `{sessionId,modelId}`; `previousModelId` optional since the `model.changed` normalizer reads only `modelId`.)

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Two implementation-critical details for the `extNotification` path are unspecified:

**1. Method-name convention.** The existing `extNotification` caller uses the fully-qualified convention `qwen/notify/session/mcp-budget-event` (`acpAgent.ts:1897`). This section says bare `current_model_update`. An implementer won't know whether to emit `current_model_update`, `qwen/notify/session/current_model_update`, or `qwen/notify/session/current-model-update`. A mismatch between emitter and demux means notifications silently drop.

**2. Early-return guard.** `BridgeClient.extNotification()` (`bridgeClient.ts:495`) has `if (method !== 'qwen/notify/session/mcp-budget-event') return;` — an early-return guard that silently drops any unrecognized method. An implementer who adds the `current_model_update` handler below this guard will find it unreachable.

Suggested fix: (a) Specify the full method string in §2 item 1 (e.g., `'qwen/notify/session/current-model-update'`). (b) Add an implementation note: "The current early-return guard at `bridgeClient.ts:495` must be restructured to a method-dispatch (switch or map) before the A1 demux is added."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Pinned in v8 §2.1/§2: full method name qwen/notify/session/model-update (matches the #4546 impl), and noted the early-return guard must become a method dispatch (done in #4546).

2. **`BridgeClient.extNotification()` (`bridgeClient.ts:491`) demuxes** the `current_model_update` notification → `model_switched` (§2.1), **only when no bridge model roundtrip is in flight** for that session. (A2's `current_mode_update` stays a real sessionUpdate, demuxed in `sessionUpdate()` — see §2.1.)
3. **`model_switch_failed` stays bridge-only** — `Session.setModel` throws with no notification; the bridge keeps publishing it on both failure paths.

> 4. **Timeout-race contract (staleness check, not "later wins").** The bridge's `withTimeout` (`bridge.ts:2844-2849`) can reject (publishing `model_switch_failed(A)`) while A's ACP call keeps running (FIXME `bridge.ts:2836-2840`). If a change B then succeeds (`model_switched(B)`) and A's call finally completes, A's late `current_model_update(A)` would — under a naive "later event is authoritative" rule — promote to `model_switched(A)` and make A the apparent final state, though B was the last intentional change. **Fix:** the demux promotes a `current_model_update` **only if its `currentModelId` equals the agent's actual current model at promotion time** (a staleness check); a stale A-after-B notification is dropped. This is the same freshness predicate the §2.2 reconciliation uses, applied at the promotion gate.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The staleness check and §2.2 reconciliation both require reading "the agent's actual current model at promotion time" but don't specify the mechanism.

§2.2 hints at "via the session-status read it already has" — but doesn't name the accessor, say whether it's sync or async, or address caching. Notably, §5 (A5 snapshot, line 219) has an explicit hard contract: "the field reads and the publish happen in one synchronous turn with no `await` between, otherwise a mutation can interleave and reopen the window." The staleness check has the same TOCTOU sensitivity — an async read could return a model that was already superseded by a concurrent change — but receives no equivalent contract.

**Fix:** Specify that the staleness check and reconciliation both follow the same hard contract as §5: "the agent-current-model read and the publish MUST be one synchronous turn with no `await` between." Name the accessor (e.g., `entry.session.config.getModelServiceId()` — synchronous, in-process). If a synchronous read is architecturally impossible at the demux insertion point, document the race window.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v8 §2.3 + §5: the read mechanism is now specified as a synchronous field read of the bridge state cache (no await), matching the §5 hard contract. The async extMethod status read is explicitly rejected because it reopens the TOCTOU window.

> 4. **Timeout-race contract (staleness check, not "later wins").** The bridge's `withTimeout` (`bridge.ts:2844-2849`) can reject (publishing `model_switch_failed(A)`) while A's ACP call keeps running (FIXME `bridge.ts:2836-2840`). If a change B then succeeds (`model_switched(B)`) and A's call finally completes, A's late `current_model_update(A)` would — under a naive "later event is authoritative" rule — promote to `model_switched(A)` and make A the apparent final state, though B was the last intentional change. **Fix:** the demux promotes a `current_model_update` **only if its `currentModelId` equals the agent's actual current model at promotion time** (a staleness check); a stale A-after-B notification is dropped. This is the same freshness predicate the §2.2 reconciliation uses, applied at the promotion gate.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The staleness check and §2.2 reconciliation both require reading the agent's actual current model but don't specify the mechanism.

§2.2 hints at via the session-status read it already has but doesn't name the accessor, say whether it's sync or async, or address caching. Notably, §5 (A5 snapshot, line 219) has an explicit hard contract: the field reads and the publish happen in one synchronous turn with no await between. The staleness check has the same TOCTOU sensitivity — an async read could return a model that was already superseded by a concurrent change — but receives no equivalent contract.

**Fix:** Specify that the staleness check and reconciliation both follow the same hard contract as §5: the agent-current-model read and the publish MUST be one synchronous turn with no await between. Name the accessor (e.g., `entry.session.config.getModelServiceId()` — synchronous, in-process).

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v8 §2.3 + §5: the read mechanism is now specified as a synchronous field read of the bridge state cache (no await), matching the §5 hard contract. The async extMethod status read is explicitly rejected because it reopens the TOCTOU window.

- **Staleness check (model):** even when no roundtrip is in flight, promote a `current_model_update` only if its `currentModelId` matches the agent's actual current model at promotion time (§2 item 4) — drops a stale late notification from a timed-out earlier change.
- **Drop-when-suppressed (third rule):** when a _promotable_ sub-type is NOT promoted (suppressed or stale), **drop it entirely** — do **not** fall back to publishing the generic `session_update`. The bridge is already publishing the authoritative named event; emitting the generic wrapper too would double-signal. (Residual concurrent-in-session drift is handled by the §2.2 reconciliation.)
- **Generic-wrapper suppression:** a promoted sub-type publishes the named event only — **except during the dual-emit transition window (below)**.

> - **Dual-emit transition (IDE-companion lockstep, see §6):** because the daemon and the VS Code IDE companion ship on different channels and can't flip atomically, the FIRST release of `current_mode_update` promotion publishes **both** the promoted `approval_mode_changed` AND the legacy generic `session_update{sessionUpdate:'current_mode_update'}` for one release cycle. The IDE companion's existing `case 'current_mode_update'` keeps working; once its `approval_mode_changed` handler ships, the next release drops the dual-emit. `current_model_update` is brand-new (no legacy consumer) so it promotes directly without dual-emit.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** No enforcement mechanism for removing the dual-emit in the next release.

"once its `approval_mode_changed` handler ships, the next release drops the dual-emit" relies entirely on institutional memory. Risk: dual-emit becomes permanent, every `current_mode_update` produces two bus events indefinitely, and a future developer may build new logic on the redundant generic wrapper — creating a second consumer that must also be migrated.

**Fix:** Require a `TODO(dual-emit-removal)` comment at the dual-emit publish site, referencing this design doc §2.1, plus a GitHub tracking issue in §7 sequencing (step 3b) with a target release.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Added in v8 §2.1 + §7 step 3b: a TODO(dual-emit-removal) at the publish site referencing §2.1, plus a tracking issue with a target release — so it cannot silently become permanent.

> - **Dual-emit transition (IDE-companion lockstep, see §6):** because the daemon and the VS Code IDE companion ship on different channels and can't flip atomically, the FIRST release of `current_mode_update` promotion publishes **both** the promoted `approval_mode_changed` AND the legacy generic `session_update{sessionUpdate:'current_mode_update'}` for one release cycle. The IDE companion's existing `case 'current_mode_update'` keeps working; once its `approval_mode_changed` handler ships, the next release drops the dual-emit. `current_model_update` is brand-new (no legacy consumer) so it promotes directly without dual-emit.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** No enforcement mechanism for removing the dual-emit in the next release.

"once its approval_mode_changed handler ships, the next release drops the dual-emit" relies entirely on institutional memory. Risk: dual-emit becomes permanent, every `current_mode_update` produces two bus events indefinitely.

**Fix:** Require a `TODO(dual-emit-removal)` comment at the dual-emit publish site, referencing this design doc §2.1, plus a GitHub tracking issue in §7 sequencing (step 3b) with a target release.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Added in v8 §2.1 + §7 step 3b: a TODO(dual-emit-removal) at the publish site referencing §2.1, plus a tracking issue with a target release — so it cannot silently become permanent.

- **Observability (required, not optional):** emit a structured log at every demux decision — `[demux] session=<id> type=<sub> action=promoted|dropped|suppressed|generic reason=<why>`. `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` has zero logging today; the `dropped` case especially must be visible so oncall can distinguish "agent didn't emit" / "demux dropped" / "SSE lost".
- **Unknown sub-types:** unchanged (generic `session_update`).

### 2.2 Post-roundtrip reconciliation (concurrent-in-session drift)

Suppress + drop assumes the bridge roundtrip and the agent describe the **same** change. That breaks under a concurrent in-session change, because in-session `/model` calls `Session.setModel` **directly and does NOT enter `modelChangeQueue`**:

1. Bridge `setSessionModel(A)` starts → suppress window opens.
2. User types `/model B` in the terminal → `Session.setModel(B)` (bypasses the queue) → agent emits `current_model_update(B)`.
3. Demux **drops** B (suppress window open).
4. Bridge publishes the authoritative `model_switched(A)`; **bus shows A, session runs B — nothing reconciles.**

> **Contract:** when a bridge model roundtrip settles, the bridge **reconciles** — it re-reads the agent's actual current model (via the session-status read it already has) and, if it diverges from the `model_switched` it just published, emits a corrective `model_switched` with the true current model. This bounds the divergence to the roundtrip window instead of leaving it permanent. (The longer-term alternative — routing in-session `/model` through `modelChangeQueue` — is noted in §10 as it requires the in-session handler to reach the bridge entry.) The same reconciliation applies to A2 approval-mode once `approvalModeQueue` exists.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §2.2 reconciliation and §2 item 4 (staleness check) both depend on reading "the agent's actual current model" but the bridge has no synchronous mechanism for this.

Verified: `SessionEntry` (`bridge.ts:183-233`) has no `lastPublishedModelId`, `currentModelId`, or similar field. The only session-status read is `getSessionContextStatus` (`bridge.ts:2784`), which is an async `extMethod` roundtrip (`requestSessionStatus` at `bridge.ts:1314-1332`). Using it reopens the race window the reconciliation is designed to close — between the `await` and the corrective publish, another in-session `/model` can fire.

The same gap affects the staleness check at the promotion gate: "its `currentModelId` equals the agent's actual current model at promotion time" — the demux in `BridgeClient.extNotification()` runs in the bridge process with no synchronous view of the agent's model.

**Suggested fix:** Specify the mechanism explicitly. The simplest correct approach: add `lastPublishedModelId: string | undefined` to `SessionEntry`, updated synchronously every time the bridge publishes a `model_switched` (bridge-driven or promoted). During a suppress window, also cache the `currentModelId` from each dropped `current_model_update`. Staleness check compares against `lastPublishedModelId`; reconciliation compares the cached suppressed model against `lastPublishedModelId`. Both reads are synchronous field accesses, satisfying §5's synchronous-block contract by construction.

Alternatively, if the async extMethod read is intentional, acknowledge the residual race and specify a mitigation.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v8 §2.3 (new "Bridge state cache"): add currentModelId/currentApprovalMode/availableCommands to SessionEntry, updated synchronously at every publish site + seeded on create. The staleness check, §2.2 reconciliation, and A5 snapshot all read these sync fields — no async extMethod roundtrip — satisfying the synchronous-block contract by construction.

> **Contract:** when a bridge model roundtrip settles, the bridge **reconciles** — it re-reads the agent's actual current model (via the session-status read it already has) and, if it diverges from the `model_switched` it just published, emits a corrective `model_switched` with the true current model. This bounds the divergence to the roundtrip window instead of leaving it permanent. (The longer-term alternative — routing in-session `/model` through `modelChangeQueue` — is noted in §10 as it requires the in-session handler to reach the bridge entry.) The same reconciliation applies to A2 approval-mode once `approvalModeQueue` exists.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §2.2 reconciliation has zero observability.

§2.1 demux requires structured logs at every decision point (line 125: `[demux] session=<id> type=<sub> action=promoted|dropped|suppressed|generic reason=<why>`), but §2.2 reconciliation — the most complex failure-recovery mechanism in the design and the only one that can produce permanent bus/session divergence — has no equivalent logging requirement.

When a corrective `model_switched` fires, oncall cannot distinguish it from a normal bridge publish. When reconciliation decides "no divergence" (or silently fails to read), there is no diagnostic trail.

**Fix:** Add structured logging at each reconciliation step:
`[reconcile] session=<id> trigger=roundtrip-settled published=<modelId> actual=<modelId> action=corrected|converged|read-error`

Also specify error handling: if the reconciliation read throws, log `action=read-error` and do not silently skip.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Added in v8 §2.2: [reconcile] session=… published=… actual=… action=corrected|converged log; a missing cache read logs action=read-error and is NOT silently skipped.

> **Contract:** when a bridge model roundtrip settles, the bridge **reconciles** — it re-reads the agent's actual current model (via the session-status read it already has) and, if it diverges from the `model_switched` it just published, emits a corrective `model_switched` with the true current model. This bounds the divergence to the roundtrip window instead of leaving it permanent. (The longer-term alternative — routing in-session `/model` through `modelChangeQueue` — is noted in §10 as it requires the in-session handler to reach the bridge entry.) The same reconciliation applies to A2 approval-mode once `approvalModeQueue` exists.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §2.2 reconciliation has zero observability.

§2.1 demux requires structured logs at every decision point (line 125: `[demux] session=<id> type=<sub> action=promoted|dropped|suppressed|generic reason=<why>`), but §2.2 reconciliation — the most complex failure-recovery mechanism in the design and the only one that can produce permanent bus/session divergence — has no equivalent logging requirement.

When a corrective `model_switched` fires, oncall cannot distinguish it from a normal bridge publish. When reconciliation decides no divergence (or silently fails to read), there is no diagnostic trail.

**Fix:** Add structured logging at each reconciliation step: `[reconcile] session=<id> trigger=roundtrip-settled published=<modelId> actual=<modelId> action=corrected|converged|read-error`. Also specify error handling: if the reconciliation read throws, log `action=read-error` and do not silently skip.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Added in v8 §2.2: [reconcile] session=… published=… actual=… action=corrected|converged log; a missing cache read logs action=read-error and is NOT silently skipped.

3. **Payload + persist.** `approval_mode_changed` needs `{previous,next,persisted}` (`bridge.ts:2979` session-scoped, `:3007` workspace-scoped). `current_mode_update` carries only `currentModeId`; the agent has no `persist` concept.
4. **No serialization primitive yet.** `approvalModeQueue` **does not exist** in the codebase today; the approval-mode HTTP path (`bridge.ts:2893-3020`) runs extMethod + publish inline with no per-session queue (unlike the model path's `modelChangeQueue`). The suppress/race window is therefore unbounded until #4510 lands it.

### Proposed design

**Session-scoped — in-session emits; bridge stays sole emitter for HTTP:**

1. Emit `current_mode_update` from `Session.setMode` (covers ACP `setSessionMode`, `acpAgent.ts:922`, and in-session `/approval-mode`).
2. The HTTP extMethod path keeps the **bridge's** session-scoped `approval_mode_changed` publish (`bridge.ts:2979`) and emits **no** agent notification (it bypasses `Session.setMode`) — the bridge is the sole emitter; nothing to suppress.

> 3. **`previousModeId` is MANDATORY (not optional).** The SDK normalizer `normalizeApprovalModeChanged` (`normalizer.ts:754`) requires `previous` and `fallbackDebug`-drops the event if it's missing — so an optional `previousModeId` would let the demux build an `approval_mode_changed` without `previous`, which the SDK then silently eats (the exact gap this design closes). `Session.setMode` therefore reads `this.config.getApprovalMode()` **before** the mutation and passes it to the generalized helper, so the demux can always build `approval_mode_changed{previous,next,persisted:false}` for in-session changes (never workspace-persisted — they don't go through the bridge's persist hook). The two existing tool-confirmation callers (`Session.ts:2160`,`:2168`) bypass `setMode` and capture the previous mode the same way.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** A2's `previousModeId` has the same ACP SDK dependency that v7 flagged for A1.

Verified: the ACP SDK's `CurrentModeUpdate` type (`@agentclientprotocol/sdk/schema/schema.json`) defines only `currentModeId` and `_meta?` — there is **no `previousModeId` field**. v7's entire motivation for rejecting `current_model_update` as a sessionUpdate was: "You cannot add a variant to the external spec'd union." The same reasoning applies to adding a new required field to `CurrentModeUpdate` — it's an ACP schema change.

The v6 changelog made `previousModeId` MANDATORY (the SDK normalizer drops events without `previous`), but the implementation can't add it to the typed literal without an SDK release.

Suggested fix: In §7 step 3, add a second hard prerequisite: "A2 additionally requires `@agentclientprotocol/sdk` to add `previousModeId` to `CurrentModeUpdate`." Alternatively, specify `_meta: { previousModeId }` as a wire-compatible interim (since `_meta` is already in the ACP spec and ignored by unaware consumers), and promote to a first-class field when the SDK updates.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Resolved in v8: the bridge derives previous from entry.currentApprovalMode (§2.3 cache, value before the change), so neither current_mode_update nor current_model_update carries previousModeId/previousModelId. This sidesteps the ACP CurrentModeUpdate schema entirely (no previousModeId field) — same external-union constraint v7 flagged for A1. No SDK release or _meta carrier needed.

4. **Helper generalization (migration model specified):** `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` (`Session.ts:1625`) today derives `newModeId` from a `ToolConfirmationOutcome` (only `auto-edit`/`default`/current). Introduce a new core helper that takes explicit `{currentModeId, previousModeId}` and emits the notification. The two existing tool-confirmation callers (`Session.ts:2160`, `:2168`) keep their `ToolConfirmationOutcome` entry point, which is updated to **capture `previousModeId` from `this.config.getApprovalMode()` before the mutation** and delegate to the new helper (so all three emit sites produce the same `{previous,next}`-complete payload). This is NOT a flag-day removal of the old signature — the outcome-derived wrapper is retained for those two callers; its deprecation is tracked separately. Avoids two payload shapes (one with, one without `previousModeId`).

**Workspace-scoped (persist) stays bridge-only:**

> 5. The persist + workspace broadcast (`bridge.ts:3007`) stays a bridge-level publish gated on the bridge's `persist` flag; `persisted:true` appears only on the workspace event. Add a `scope: 'session' | 'workspace'` discriminator.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `scope` discriminator is introduced here but not integrated into the §2.1 payload mapping.

§2.1 specifies the promoted payload for `current_mode_update → approval_mode_changed` as `{previous, next, persisted:false}` — no `scope`. But §8 test plan (line 271) expects `approval_mode_changed{scope:'session',persisted:false}`.

Implementers following §2.1's payload mapping will produce a payload without `scope`, failing the test plan. Additionally, the relationship between `scope` and the existing `persisted` boolean (which already encodes the session/workspace distinction) is unspecified.

**Fix:** In §2.1 payload mapping for `current_mode_update → approval_mode_changed`, spell out the full promoted payload including `scope`, e.g. `{sessionId, previous, next, persisted, scope: 'session' | 'workspace'}`. Clarify whether `scope` is additive on the existing `DaemonApprovalModeChangedData` interface, and whether `persisted` is retained alongside or replaced.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v8 §2.1: the promoted approval_mode_changed payload is now spelled out as {sessionId, previous, next, persisted:false, scope:"session"}; scope is additive on DaemonApprovalModeChangedData and orthogonal to persisted (scope = which bus; persisted = whether workspace settings were written).

> 5. The persist + workspace broadcast (`bridge.ts:3007`) stays a bridge-level publish gated on the bridge's `persist` flag; `persisted:true` appears only on the workspace event. Add a `scope: 'session' | 'workspace'` discriminator.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `scope` discriminator is introduced here but not integrated into the §2.1 payload mapping.

§2.1 specifies the promoted payload for `current_mode_update → approval_mode_changed` as `{previous, next, persisted:false}` — no `scope`. But §8 test plan (line 271) expects `approval_mode_changed{scope:'session',persisted:false}`.

Implementers following §2.1's payload mapping will produce a payload without `scope`, failing the test plan. Additionally, the relationship between `scope` and the existing `persisted` boolean (which already encodes the session/workspace distinction) is unspecified.

**Fix:** In §2.1 payload mapping for `current_mode_update → approval_mode_changed`, spell out the full promoted payload including `scope`, e.g. `{sessionId, previous, next, persisted, scope: 'session' | 'workspace'}`. Clarify whether `scope` is additive on the existing `DaemonApprovalModeChangedData` interface, and whether `persisted` is retained alongside or replaced.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v8 §2.1: the promoted approval_mode_changed payload is now spelled out as {sessionId, previous, next, persisted:false, scope:"session"}; scope is additive on DaemonApprovalModeChangedData and orthogonal to persisted (scope = which bus; persisted = whether workspace settings were written).

- **SDK typed event:** expose **both** `originatorClientId` (unchanged — no rename, no break) **and** a new optional `voterClientId`; old field documented as deprecated-alias for a future major.
- Prompt originator remains available by correlating with the matching `permission_request`.

### Wire / compat

Additive on both layers — no consumer breaks. Mirrors the D4 aliasing (PR #4510).

---

## 5. A5 — attach-time side-channel snapshot

### Problem

A `Last-Event-ID` attach gets replay + live tail but no current side-channel snapshot. Today it pulls `qwen/status/session/context` (`packages/acp-bridge/src/status.ts:96`), supported-commands, `POST /load`.

### Proposed design

Opt-in via `?snapshot=1`; emit a synthetic **`session_snapshot`** frame after replay:

```
session_snapshot { approvalMode, model, availableCommands? }
```

- **`replay_complete` already exists** (`eventBus.ts:444`, shipped by merged #4484) — A5 phase 2 introduces only the new `session_snapshot` frame, not `replay_complete`.
- **Resume ordering: replay → `replay_complete` → `session_snapshot`.** The snapshot is the authoritative final word.

> - **Capture at emission time, NOT subscribe time, in a single synchronous block.** v3's "capture at subscribe (T0), emit after replay" had a stale-overwrite bug: a live `model_switched` delivered during replay (newer) would be overwritten by the T0 snapshot applied last. Capturing the snapshot **immediately before emission** fixes it — **but only if the field reads (`approvalMode`/`model`/`availableCommands`) and the publish happen in one synchronous turn with no `await` between**, otherwise a mutation can interleave and reopen the window. This is a hard contract requirement, not a convention.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** A5 snapshot "single synchronous block" is infeasible — no bridge state cache exists.

Verified: the bridge's `SessionEntry` (`bridge.ts:175`) has no `currentModel`, `currentApprovalMode`, or `availableCommands` field. The bridge publishes `model_switched` and `approval_mode_changed` without retaining current values. To capture a snapshot in one synchronous turn, the implementation must either:

1. **Add state-tracking fields to `SessionEntry`** — updated at every publish site. This is a significant addition not mentioned anywhere in the design. The design must specify which fields, every publish site that updates them, and the initial-state population path (before any model/approval-mode change occurs).
2. **Query the agent** via extMethod (`qwen/status/session/context`) — but this is async and violates the "no `await` between" contract.

Without resolving this, A5 phase 2 cannot implement the synchronous-block contract as specified.

Suggested fix: Add a "Bridge state cache" subsection to §5 specifying: (a) `SessionEntry` fields to add (`currentModelId`, `currentApprovalMode`, `availableCommands`), (b) every publish site that updates them (model_switched at bridge.ts:2883/:1172, approval_mode_changed at :2979/:3007), (c) initial-state population from the `createSession`/`loadSession` ACP response, (d) how the synchronous-block contract works given the cache is populated async on session creation.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v8 §2.3 + §5 (Critical): the synchronous-block snapshot is now feasible because §2.3 adds the cache fields (currentModelId/currentApprovalMode/availableCommands) updated at every publish + seeded on session create. §5 reads them in one synchronous turn. Without §2.3 the contract was unimplementable — exactly your point.

3. **A2 — BLOCKED on PR #4510** (`approvalModeQueue`). Adds `current_mode_update` promotion (with `previousModeId`), `Session.setMode` emit + previous-mode capture, helper generalization, `scope`, retained bridge workspace publish, the **dual-emit transition** + IDE-companion + upstream-dispatch updates.
4. **A5** — phase 1 pull-contract docs; phase 2 opt-in `session_snapshot` (capture-at-emission in a synchronous block; after `replay_complete` on resume, self-delimiting first frame on first-attach). `replay_complete` already exists (#4484); only `session_snapshot` is new.

Each lands as its own implementation PR after this design is approved.

---

## 8. Test plan

> - **Demux/§1.1:** promoted `current_model_update` publishes `model_switched` and suppresses the generic wrapper; a notification during an in-flight bridge model roundtrip is **dropped** (not generic-published, not promoted); an in-session notification IS promoted; unknown sub-type still generic.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Test plan is missing explicit tests for the two novel correctness mechanisms: the staleness check and §2.2 reconciliation.

Two missing scenarios:
1. **Staleness check:** a stale `current_model_update(A)` arriving after `model_switched(B)` was already published (no roundtrip in flight) — should be **dropped** by the staleness check, not promoted.
2. **§2.2 reconciliation:** bridge `setSessionModel(A)` with concurrent in-session `/model B` (bypasses `modelChangeQueue`) during the roundtrip — assert the demux drops B, bridge publishes `model_switched(A)`, then reconciliation reads B and publishes a corrective `model_switched(B)`.

The existing test "a `model_switched` after a timeout `model_switch_failed` is delivered (authoritative-latest)" tests timeout-race delivery but NOT the staleness-drop path. The demux test "a notification during an in-flight bridge model roundtrip is dropped" tests suppress-during-roundtrip but NOT the post-roundtrip reconciliation.

**Fix:** Add both scenarios plus a negative test: reconciliation fires with no concurrent change → publishes nothing.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Expanded in v8 §8: added staleness-drop, §2.2 reconciliation (+ negative converged case), cross-axis non-suppression, bridge state cache, dual-emit transition, and extNotification-transport scenarios.

> - **Demux/§1.1:** promoted `current_model_update` publishes `model_switched` and suppresses the generic wrapper; a notification during an in-flight bridge model roundtrip is **dropped** (not generic-published, not promoted); an in-session notification IS promoted; unknown sub-type still generic.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Test plan is missing explicit tests for the two novel correctness mechanisms: the staleness check and §2.2 reconciliation.

Two missing scenarios:
1. **Staleness check:** a stale `current_model_update(A)` arriving after `model_switched(B)` was already published (no roundtrip in flight) — should be **dropped** by the staleness check, not promoted.
2. **§2.2 reconciliation:** bridge `setSessionModel(A)` with concurrent in-session `/model B` (bypasses `modelChangeQueue`) during the roundtrip — assert the demux drops B, bridge publishes `model_switched(A)`, then reconciliation reads B and publishes a corrective `model_switched(B)`.

**Fix:** Add both scenarios plus a negative test: reconciliation fires with no concurrent change → publishes nothing.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Expanded in v8 §8: added staleness-drop, §2.2 reconciliation (+ negative converged case), cross-axis non-suppression, bridge state cache, dual-emit transition, and extNotification-transport scenarios.

> - **Demux/§1.1:** promoted `current_model_update` publishes `model_switched` and suppresses the generic wrapper; a notification during an in-flight bridge model roundtrip is **dropped** (not generic-published, not promoted); an in-session notification IS promoted; unknown sub-type still generic.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Test plan has 5 gaps for load-bearing mechanisms introduced in v5–v7. Each was a Critical design addition but has no corresponding test scenario:

1. **Post-roundtrip reconciliation (§2.2):** Bridge `setSessionModel(A)` in flight → in-session `/model B` bypasses queue → `current_model_update(B)` dropped → bridge publishes `model_switched(A)` → reconciliation reads B → corrective `model_switched(B)`. This is the ONLY mechanism preventing permanent model-state divergence.
2. **Staleness check drop (§2 item 4):** Late `current_model_update(A)` after timeout + `model_switch_failed(A)` + `model_switched(B)` → demux drops stale A. A v6 Critical fix replacing the broken "later wins" rule.
3. **Cross-axis non-suppression (§2.1):** Model roundtrip in flight does NOT suppress `current_mode_update` (per-type, not per-session). A v6 correction — regression to per-session suppression silently drops approval-mode changes.
4. **Dual-emit transition (§2.1/§6):** Both `approval_mode_changed` AND `session_update{current_mode_update}` emitted during the transition window.
5. **extNotification transport (v7):** `current_model_update` arrives via `extNotification()`, not `sessionUpdate()`.

Suggested fix: Add explicit test scenarios for each, especially items 1 and 3 (the load-bearing correctness mechanisms). For item 1: bridge `setSessionModel(A)` + concurrent in-session `/model B` → assert reconciliation emits corrective `model_switched(B)`. For item 3: model roundtrip in flight + in-session `current_mode_update` → assert it IS promoted.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Expanded in v8 §8: added staleness-drop, §2.2 reconciliation (+ negative converged case), cross-axis non-suppression, bridge state cache, dual-emit transition, and extNotification-transport scenarios.

> - **A1:** in-session `/model` AND plan-mode each publish exactly one `model_switched`; HTTP `POST /model` and attach-time `applyModelServiceId` each publish exactly one (no double); failed `setModel` (in-session + HTTP) emits no `model_switched`, HTTP still emits `model_switch_failed`; a `model_switched` after a timeout `model_switch_failed` is delivered (authoritative-latest).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The test plan is missing two scenarios for v6 Critical fixes:

1. **Staleness check (§2 item 4):** "a `model_switched` after a timeout `model_switch_failed` is delivered" tests B's success event delivery but does NOT test that a stale `current_model_update(A)` arriving after `model_switched(B)` is DROPPED by the staleness predicate. Add: "stale `current_model_update(A)` arriving after `model_switched(B)` (A was the timed-out earlier change) is dropped by the demux — bus remains on B."

2. **§2.2 reconciliation:** no test for the corrective-emit scenario. Add: "Bridge `setSessionModel(A)` in flight → concurrent in-session `/model B` bypasses `modelChangeQueue` → B's notification dropped (suppress) → bridge publishes `model_switched(A)` → bridge reconciles and emits corrective `model_switched(B)` → bus converges on B."

Both are load-bearing fixes from v6; regressions should be caught by the test suite.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Expanded in v8 §8: added staleness-drop, §2.2 reconciliation (+ negative converged case), cross-axis non-suppression, bridge state cache, dual-emit transition, and extNotification-transport scenarios.

- **A4:** **distinguishing case** — client A submits the prompt (so `permission_request.originatorClientId === A`), a DIFFERENT client B casts the resolving vote (so `permission_resolved.voterClientId === B`), assert the two differ (the disambiguation A4 exists for, not just the same-client value); timer/no-clientId resolution carries neither field; SDK exposes both; old-daemon fallback surfaces the voter via `originatorClientId`. (Done in PR #4539.)
- **A5:** `?snapshot=1` resume yields `session_snapshot` (mode/model/commands, no pendingPermissionIds) after `replay_complete`; first-attach yields `session_snapshot` as the first frame with **no** synthetic `replay_complete`; attach WITHOUT the flag yields NO snapshot; toggling the flag across reconnects is idempotent; a `model_switched` delivered during replay is NOT overwritten by the (emission-time, synchronous-capture) snapshot.
- **Compat migration (§2.1):** an SDK reducer previously fed `current_mode_update` as generic `session_update` reaches identical state once it's promoted to `approval_mode_changed`.

> - **Helper regression (§3.4):** `exit_plan_mode` and `ProceedAlways` callers still produce correct `current_mode_update` payloads after the helper is generalized.

Reviewer: **[Nice to have]** The test plan references "Helper regression (**§3.4**)" but section 3 has no subsection numbered 3.4 — the helper generalization is described in section 3 point 4 (within the numbered proposed-design list). Fix the cross-reference to "§3 point 4 (helper generalization)" or add a labeled sub-heading in §3.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v8 §8: §3.4 → "§3 point 4 (helper generalization)".

> - **Helper regression (§3.4):** `exit_plan_mode` and `ProceedAlways` callers still produce correct `current_mode_update` payloads after the helper is generalized.

Reviewer: **[Nice to have]** The test plan references "Helper regression (§3.4)" but section 3 has no subsection numbered 3.4 — the helper generalization is described in section 3 point 4 (within the numbered proposed-design list). Fix the cross-reference to §3 point 4 (helper generalization) or add a labeled sub-heading in §3.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v8 §8: §3.4 → "§3 point 4 (helper generalization)".

- **Observability (required, not optional):** emit a structured log at every demux decision — `[demux] session=<id> type=<sub> action=promoted|dropped|suppressed|generic reason=<why>`. `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` has zero logging today; the `dropped` case especially must be visible so oncall can distinguish "agent didn't emit" / "demux dropped" / "SSE lost".
- **Unknown sub-types:** unchanged (generic `session_update`).

### 2.2 Post-roundtrip reconciliation (concurrent-in-session drift)

Suppress + drop assumes the bridge roundtrip and the agent describe the **same** change. That breaks under a concurrent in-session change, because in-session `/model` calls `Session.setModel` **directly and does NOT enter `modelChangeQueue`**:

1. Bridge `setSessionModel(A)` starts → suppress window opens.
2. User types `/model B` in the terminal → `Session.setModel(B)` (bypasses the queue) → agent emits `current_model_update(B)`.
3. Demux **drops** B (suppress window open).
4. Bridge publishes the authoritative `model_switched(A)`; **bus shows A, session runs B — nothing reconciles.**

> 

Reviewer: **[Critical]** §2.2 reconciliation has a three-way race condition. The async `getSessionContextStatus` read creates a TOCTOU window between roundtrip-settle and read-return:

1. Bridge `setSessionModel(A)` settles → suppress closes → reconciliation async read starts.
2. In-session `/model C` fires (no suppress window) → promoted to `model_switched(C)` on bus.
3. Reconciliation read returns B (the agent state when read was issued, before C).
4. Reconciliation sees B ≠ A → emits corrective `model_switched(B)`, **overwriting C**.
5. Final: bus=B, agent=C — the exact permanent divergence this mechanism exists to prevent.

Also: "when a bridge model roundtrip settles" is ambiguous about the failure path. If `withTimeout` rejects (publishing `model_switch_failed`) while the ACP call keeps running, reconciliation is most needed but the trigger condition is undefined. Specify that reconciliation fires on both success and failure paths (e.g., via `.finally()`).

Suggested fix: (a) Track whether any promotion occurred between settle and read-return — if so, skip the corrective (the bus has newer authoritative state). (b) Alternatively, route in-session `/model` through `modelChangeQueue` (§10 Q3) to prevent the drift at source. (c) Explicitly include the failure path in the reconciliation trigger.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v10 §2.2 (Critical): added a per-session modelPublishGeneration bumped on every model_switched publish (bridge / demux / reconciliation corrective). Reconciliation captures the generation BEFORE the async read and SKIPS the corrective if it advanced during the read — so a concurrent /model C that promoted while the read was in flight is not clobbered (action=skipped-newer-gen). Also: reconciliation now fires on BOTH success and failure paths (.finally), covering the timeout case. And §10 Q3 is elevated — serialize in-session /model through modelChangeQueue is the race-free target.

> 

Reviewer: **[Critical]** §2.2 reconciliation has a three-way race condition. The async `getSessionContextStatus` read creates a TOCTOU window between roundtrip-settle and read-return:

1. Bridge `setSessionModel(A)` settles → suppress closes → reconciliation async read starts.
2. In-session `/model C` fires (no suppress window) → promoted to `model_switched(C)` on bus.
3. Reconciliation read returns B (the agent state when read was issued, before C).
4. Reconciliation sees B ≠ A → emits corrective `model_switched(B)`, **overwriting C**.
5. Final: bus=B, agent=C — the exact permanent divergence this mechanism exists to prevent.

Also: "when a bridge model roundtrip settles" is ambiguous about the failure path. If `withTimeout` rejects (publishing `model_switch_failed`) while the ACP call keeps running, reconciliation is most needed but the trigger condition is undefined.

Suggested fix: (a) Track whether any promotion occurred between settle and read-return — if so, skip the corrective. (b) Route in-session `/model` through `modelChangeQueue` (§10 Q3). (c) Explicitly include the failure path in the reconciliation trigger.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v10 §2.2 (Critical): added a per-session modelPublishGeneration bumped on every model_switched publish (bridge / demux / reconciliation corrective). Reconciliation captures the generation BEFORE the async read and SKIPS the corrective if it advanced during the read — so a concurrent /model C that promoted while the read was in flight is not clobbered (action=skipped-newer-gen). Also: reconciliation now fires on BOTH success and failure paths (.finally), covering the timeout case. And §10 Q3 is elevated — serialize in-session /model through modelChangeQueue is the race-free target.

**Contract (v9 — authoritative read, not the cache):** when a bridge model roundtrip settles, the bridge **reconciles** — it reads the agent's **true** current model via `getSessionContextStatus` (`bridge.ts:2784`, an async `extMethod` status read) and, if it diverges from the `model_switched` it just published, emits a corrective `model_switched`. **Why not the §2.3 cache:** the cache is updated only at publish sites, but a concurrent in-session change that the demux **dropped** (suppress window) was never published, so the cache can't observe it — reading the cache would falsely conclude "no divergence". The agent is the only source of truth here. The read is async, but it runs **post-settle, outside the demux**, so the §5 synchronous-block constraint (which protects the snapshot/staleness reads) does not apply. This bounds the divergence to the roundtrip window. (Longer-term alternative — routing in-session `/model` through `modelChangeQueue` — in §10.) The same reconciliation applies to A2 once `approvalModeQueue` exists.

> **Observability:** every reconciliation logs `[reconcile] session=<id> trigger=roundtrip-settled published=<modelId> actual=<modelId> action=corrected|converged`. If the status read throws, log `action=read-error` and do **not** silently skip (the bus may be left diverged; surface it for oncall).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Reconciliation read-error has no retry or fallback. A transient `getSessionContextStatus` failure leaves the bus permanently diverged with only a log line — no retry, deferred re-read, or client-visible error event. Since reconciliation is the ONLY mechanism catching concurrent-in-session drift (suppressed notifications are dropped), a single transient failure creates permanent state divergence.

Suggested fix: Add bounded retry (1-2 attempts, short backoff) before giving up. If all fail, emit a `reconciliation_failed` event on the bus so attached clients can display a warning or trigger their own status pull.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v10 §2.2: read-error now does 1-2 bounded retries with short backoff; if all fail it emits a reconciliation_failed bus event (clients can warn / pull) and logs action=read-error — no longer permanently diverged with just a log line.

> **Observability:** every reconciliation logs `[reconcile] session=<id> trigger=roundtrip-settled published=<modelId> actual=<modelId> action=corrected|converged`. If the status read throws, log `action=read-error` and do **not** silently skip (the bus may be left diverged; surface it for oncall).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Reconciliation read-error has no retry or fallback. A transient `getSessionContextStatus` failure leaves the bus permanently diverged with only a log line — no retry, deferred re-read, or client-visible error event. Since reconciliation is the ONLY mechanism catching concurrent-in-session drift (suppressed notifications are dropped), a single transient failure creates permanent state divergence.

Suggested fix: Add bounded retry (1-2 attempts, short backoff) before giving up. If all fail, emit a `reconciliation_failed` event on the bus so attached clients can display a warning or trigger their own status pull.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v10 §2.2: read-error now does 1-2 bounded retries with short backoff; if all fail it emits a reconciliation_failed bus event (clients can warn / pull) and logs action=read-error — no longer permanently diverged with just a log line.

### 2.3 Bridge state cache (synchronous source of "current" model/mode/commands)

The staleness check (§2 item 4), §2.2 reconciliation, and A5's snapshot (§5) all need the session's **current** model / approval-mode / commands. The bridge had no synchronous accessor — only `getSessionContextStatus` (`bridge.ts:2784` → `requestSessionStatus`, an async `extMethod` roundtrip), and an `await` there reopens the very TOCTOU window these mechanisms close. So:

- Add to `SessionEntry`: `currentModelId?: string`, `currentApprovalMode?: ApprovalMode`, `availableCommands?: …`.

> - **Update synchronously at every publish site**, in the same synchronous turn as the publish (no `await` between read-of-old and write-of-new): `model_switched` (`bridge.ts:2883` / `:1172` / the demux promotion), `approval_mode_changed` (`:2979` / `:3007`), available-commands updates.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The publish-site enumeration omits the §2.2 reconciliation corrective. It lists `model_switched` at `bridge.ts:2883` / `:1172` / demux promotion, but the reconciliation's corrective `model_switched` — a new publish site introduced by this design — is not included.

If an implementer follows the enumeration literally, the reconciliation publish doesn't update `entry.currentModelId`, leaving the cache diverged from the bus after correction. Subsequent A5 snapshots, best-effort dedup, and `previous` derivation all read stale cache values.

Suggested fix: Add "the §2.2 reconciliation corrective" to the enumeration and add a reconciliation-publish test to §8.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v10 §2.3: the reconciliation corrective is added to the publish-site enumeration and must update entry.currentModelId + bump modelPublishGeneration, so the cache stays consistent with the bus after a correction.

> - **Update synchronously at every publish site**, in the same synchronous turn as the publish (no `await` between read-of-old and write-of-new): `model_switched` (`bridge.ts:2883` / `:1172` / the demux promotion), `approval_mode_changed` (`:2979` / `:3007`), available-commands updates.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The publish-site enumeration omits the §2.2 reconciliation corrective. It lists `model_switched` at `bridge.ts:2883` / `:1172` / demux promotion, but the reconciliation's corrective `model_switched` — a new publish site introduced by this design — is not included.

If an implementer follows the enumeration literally, the reconciliation publish doesn't update `entry.currentModelId`, leaving the cache diverged from the bus after correction. Subsequent A5 snapshots, best-effort dedup, and `previous` derivation all read stale cache values.

Suggested fix: Add "the §2.2 reconciliation corrective" to the enumeration and add a reconciliation-publish test to §8.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v10 §2.3: the reconciliation corrective is added to the publish-site enumeration and must update entry.currentModelId + bump modelPublishGeneration, so the cache stays consistent with the bus after a correction.

- **A4:** **distinguishing case** — client A submits the prompt (so `permission_request.originatorClientId === A`), a DIFFERENT client B casts the resolving vote (so `permission_resolved.voterClientId === B`), assert the two differ (the disambiguation A4 exists for, not just the same-client value); timer/no-clientId resolution carries neither field; SDK exposes both; old-daemon fallback surfaces the voter via `originatorClientId`. (Done in PR #4539.)
- **A5:** `?snapshot=1` resume yields `session_snapshot` (mode/model/commands, no pendingPermissionIds) after `replay_complete`; first-attach yields `session_snapshot` as the first frame with **no** synthetic `replay_complete`; attach WITHOUT the flag yields NO snapshot; toggling the flag across reconnects is idempotent; a `model_switched` delivered during replay is NOT overwritten by the (emission-time, synchronous-capture) snapshot.

> - **Staleness-drop (§2 item 4):** a stale `current_model_update(A)` arriving after the cache already advanced to B (A was the timed-out earlier change, no roundtrip in flight) is **dropped** — bus stays on B.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** This test scenario contradicts the v9 design. The test says a stale `current_model_update(A)` arriving when cache=B is **dropped**. But §2.1's best-effort dedup drops ONLY when `currentModelId === entry.currentModelId` (equal values — a redundant dup). Here A ≠ B, so the dedup does NOT drop — the notification would be promoted (no roundtrip in flight). The v9 changelog (line 18) explicitly states: "drops only the unambiguous case... a redundant dup."

An implementer following this test would add value-based staleness detection to the demux, which v9 removed in favor of reconciliation.

Suggested fix: Replace with two correct scenarios:
1. **Redundant-dup drop:** `current_model_update(A)` when `entry.currentModelId` is already A → dropped (no-op dedup).
2. **Timeout-race via reconciliation:** stale `current_model_update(A)` when cache=B → promoted (A ≠ B, dedup doesn't fire), but §2.2 reconciliation already converged the bus on B via the authoritative read.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v10 §8: the scenario contradicted v9 (it expected a value-based drop of A when cache=B, but v9 drops only the equal-value dup). Replaced with: (1) redundant-dup drop (current_model_update(A) when cache already A → dropped); (2) timeout-race (A≠B → promoted, reconciliation converges). Plus a generation-skip test.

> - **Staleness-drop (§2 item 4):** a stale `current_model_update(A)` arriving after the cache already advanced to B (A was the timed-out earlier change, no roundtrip in flight) is **dropped** — bus stays on B.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** This test scenario contradicts the v9 design. The test says a stale `current_model_update(A)` arriving when cache=B is **dropped**. But §2.1's best-effort dedup drops ONLY when `currentModelId === entry.currentModelId` (equal values — a redundant dup). Here A ≠ B, so the dedup does NOT drop — the notification would be promoted (no roundtrip in flight). The v9 changelog (line 18) explicitly states: "drops only the unambiguous case... a redundant dup."

An implementer following this test would add value-based staleness detection to the demux, which v9 removed in favor of reconciliation.

Suggested fix: Replace with two correct scenarios:
1. **Redundant-dup drop:** `current_model_update(A)` when `entry.currentModelId` is already A → dropped (no-op dedup).
2. **Timeout-race via reconciliation:** stale `current_model_update(A)` when cache=B → promoted (A ≠ B, dedup doesn't fire), but §2.2 reconciliation already converged the bus on B via the authoritative read.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v10 §8: the scenario contradicted v9 (it expected a value-based drop of A when cache=B, but v9 drops only the equal-value dup). Replaced with: (1) redundant-dup drop (current_model_update(A) when cache already A → dropped); (2) timeout-race (A≠B → promoted, reconciliation converges). Plus a generation-skip test.

- **Observability (required, not optional):** emit a structured log at every demux decision — `[demux] session=<id> type=<sub> action=promoted|dropped|suppressed|generic reason=<why>`. `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` has zero logging today; the `dropped` case especially must be visible so oncall can distinguish "agent didn't emit" / "demux dropped" / "SSE lost".
- **Unknown sub-types:** unchanged (generic `session_update`).

### 2.2 Post-roundtrip reconciliation (concurrent-in-session drift)

Suppress + drop assumes the bridge roundtrip and the agent describe the **same** change. That breaks under a concurrent in-session change, because in-session `/model` calls `Session.setModel` **directly and does NOT enter `modelChangeQueue`**:

1. Bridge `setSessionModel(A)` starts → suppress window opens.
2. User types `/model B` in the terminal → `Session.setModel(B)` (bypasses the queue) → agent emits `current_model_update(B)`.
3. Demux **drops** B (suppress window open).
4. Bridge publishes the authoritative `model_switched(A)`; **bus shows A, session runs B — nothing reconciles.**

> **Contract (v9/v10 — authoritative read, generation-guarded):** reconciliation fires when a bridge model roundtrip settles — on **both** the success and failure paths (a `.finally` on the roundtrip, since the timeout/failure case is exactly when the bus is most likely diverged). It reads the agent's **true** current model via `getSessionContextStatus` (`bridge.ts:2784`, async `extMethod`) and, if it diverges from the published model, emits a corrective `model_switched`. **Why not the §2.3 cache:** the cache is updated only at publish sites, so it can't observe a concurrent in-session change the demux **dropped** — reading it would falsely conclude "no divergence". The agent is the only source of truth. The read is async but runs **post-settle, outside the demux**, so the §5 synchronous-block constraint doesn't apply. (Longer-term: route in-session `/model` through `modelChangeQueue` — §10 Q3 — to make this race-free at the source.) The same reconciliation applies to A2 once `approvalModeQueue` exists.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** Failure-path reconciliation comparison baseline is undefined.

v10 adds `.finally` so reconciliation fires on both success and failure paths. But the contract says "if it diverges from the published model" — on the failure path, no `model_switched` was published (only `model_switch_failed`), so "the published model" has no referent.

If an implementer reads "published model" as the attempted-but-failed model A, and the agent actually applied A despite the timeout, reconciliation concludes `converged` (agent=A, intended=A) while the bus remains on the pre-roundtrip value — permanent divergence on the path v10 calls "most likely diverged."

```suggestion
**Contract (v9/v10 — authoritative read, generation-guarded):** reconciliation fires when a bridge model roundtrip settles — on **both** the success and failure paths (a `.finally` on the roundtrip, since the timeout/failure case is exactly when the bus is most likely diverged). It reads the agent's **true** current model via `getSessionContextStatus` (`bridge.ts:2784`, async `extMethod`) and, if it diverges from the bus's current model (`entry.currentModelId` — on the failure path this is the pre-roundtrip value, since `model_switch_failed` does not update the cache), emits a corrective `model_switched`.
```

Also add a §8 `_failure-path trigger_` sub-scenario: "timed-out roundtrip, status read returns a model different from `entry.currentModelId` → corrective emitted, bus converges."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v11 §2.2: the contract now explicitly states that on the failure path (`model_switch_failed`), no `model_switched` was published — so the comparison baseline is `entry.currentModelId` (the pre-roundtrip value, since `model_switch_failed` does not update the cache). Also renamed the log field to `baseline` to avoid the ambiguous "published" term. A §8 `_failure-path trigger_` sub-scenario is included.

> **Generation guard (v10 — closes the read-window TOCTOU):** between settle and the async read returning, a concurrent in-session `/model C` can promote `model_switched(C)`; the in-flight read (issued before C) returns the pre-C value and reconciliation would clobber C. Fix: a per-session `modelPublishGeneration` is bumped on **every** `model_switched` publish (bridge / demux promotion / reconciliation corrective). Reconciliation captures the generation **before** the read and **skips the corrective if it advanced** during the read — a newer authoritative publish already landed, so the bus is current.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** `modelPublishGeneration` has no enforcement mechanism — a missed bump at any current or future publish site silently disables the TOCTOU protection.

The design enumerates four publish sites (bridge, applyModelServiceId, demux promotion, reconciliation corrective) but provides no compile-time check, runtime assertion, or helper function. If a fifth `model_switched` publish site is added without bumping the generation, the guard silently degrades: reconciliation sees `capturedGen === currentGen`, publishes a stale corrective, and the bus diverges with no log, no metric, no test failure.

Consider specifying a single `publishModelSwitched(entry, modelId)` helper that atomically (in one synchronous turn): (1) updates `entry.currentModelId`, (2) bumps `entry.modelPublishGeneration`, (3) publishes to the bus. Make it the **only** call site — all four publish sites route through it. Add a test invariant: after every code path that publishes `model_switched`, assert the generation advanced by exactly 1.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v11 §2.2: introduced the `publishModelSwitched` helper — a single function that atomically (1) sets `entry.currentModelId`, (2) bumps `entry.modelPublishGeneration`, (3) publishes to the bus. All four publish sites must route through it; direct `events.publish({type:'model_switched',...})` is forbidden outside the helper. §8 asserts generation advanced by exactly 1 after each site.

> **Read-error: bounded retry, then surface.** A transient `getSessionContextStatus` failure must not leave the bus permanently diverged with only a log line. Retry 1–2× with short backoff; if all fail, emit a `reconciliation_failed` bus event (so clients can warn / trigger their own status pull) and log `action=read-error`.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** The generation guard's correctness depends on an undocumented invariant: `getSessionContextStatus` must return a **fresh** (non-cached) value on every call.

The design's "agent is the only source of truth" argument assumes the `extMethod` status read returns the agent's live current model. But the contract does not specify or require that the read is free of response caching, request deduplication, or in-flight coalescing. If any implementation layer (agent, ACP transport, middleware) adds even a trivial response cache (e.g., 50ms TTL to avoid thundering-herd reads from multiple clients), the following scenario is unguarded:

1. Reconciliation captures generation G1, issues read.
2. Read returns stale value from cache (not live).
3. No concurrent publish happens *during* the read → generation stays G1.
4. Guard sees `G1 === G1` → publishes stale corrective → bus clobbered.

The generation guard didn't help because no concurrent publish happened *during* the read window.

Add to the contract: "The `getSessionContextStatus` read used by reconciliation MUST bypass any response cache or request deduplication — it must return a fresh point-in-time read of the agent's model." Alternatively, use a distinct method name contractually guaranteed to be uncached.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v11 §2.2: added an explicit "Fresh-read invariant" paragraph — `getSessionContextStatus` MUST return a fresh point-in-time value, MUST bypass any response cache / request deduplication / in-flight coalescing. The contract is now explicit; current implementation (`extMethod` = fresh JSON-RPC call each invocation) satisfies it, and any future caching layer MUST exempt reconciliation reads.

> **Observability:** `[reconcile] session=<id> trigger=roundtrip-settled|failed published=<modelId> actual=<modelId> action=corrected|converged|skipped-newer-gen|read-error`.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** The design should explicitly state that the reconciliation corrective publish does NOT trigger a subsequent reconciliation.

The corrective is a local `eventBus.publish`, not a bridge roundtrip — so mechanically it won't re-trigger. But if an implementer factors the publish through a shared helper that also schedules reconciliation (e.g., a `publishModelSwitched` wrapper that attaches `.finally` reconciliation), you get an infinite corrective loop: reconcile → reads → publishes corrective → triggers reconcile → reads → publishes → …

Each corrective bumps the generation, but each new reconciliation reads the agent and may find divergence (the corrective updates the bus, not the agent), producing a production-destroying infinite publish loop.

```suggestion
**Observability:** `[reconcile] session=<id> trigger=roundtrip-settled|failed published=<modelId> actual=<modelId> action=corrected|converged|skipped-newer-gen|read-error`. The reconciliation corrective is a local `eventBus.publish` and does **not** schedule a subsequent reconciliation — implementation must ensure the corrective path does not flow through the roundtrip-settle hook.
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v11 §2.2: added a dedicated "Non-recursion rule" paragraph stating the corrective calls `publishModelSwitched` (local bus publish) and does NOT schedule a subsequent reconciliation. Implementation must ensure the corrective path does not flow through the roundtrip-settle `.finally` hook. Also added to the observability line for double coverage.

- **Reconciliation (§2.2, authoritative + generation-guarded):**
  - _corrective:_ bridge `setSessionModel(A)` in flight → concurrent in-session `/model B` dropped (suppress) → bridge publishes `model_switched(A)` → post-settle `getSessionContextStatus` (mocked → B) → corrective `model_switched(B)`; bus converges on B (and the corrective updates the cache + generation).
  - _converged:_ status read equals the published model → no corrective (`action=converged`).
  - _generation-skip (TOCTOU):_ a promotion lands during the async read (generation advances) → reconciliation **skips** the corrective even if its read is stale (`action=skipped-newer-gen`).
  - _failure-path trigger:_ a timed-out roundtrip (`model_switch_failed`) still triggers reconciliation.
  - _read-error:_ status read fails all retries → emits `reconciliation_failed`, logs `action=read-error`, no corrective.
- **Cross-axis non-suppression (§2.1):** an in-flight bridge **model** roundtrip does NOT suppress an in-session `current_mode_update` (it IS promoted), and vice-versa.

> - **Bridge state cache (§2.3):** every publish site updates `entry.currentModelId` / `currentApprovalMode`; the snapshot/reconcile/staleness reads see the latest value synchronously; cache seeded on session create.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** This test bullet says "every publish site updates `entry.currentModelId` / `currentApprovalMode`" but does not assert that every `model_switched` publish also bumps `entry.modelPublishGeneration` — yet §2.3 (line 178) requires it, and the §2.2 generation guard cannot work without it.

Extend to: "every `model_switched` publish site (including the §2.2 reconciliation corrective) updates `entry.currentModelId` AND bumps `entry.modelPublishGeneration`; snapshot/dedup/generation-guard reads observe both."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v11 §8 + changelog: the test bullet now asserts that every `model_switched` publish site (including reconciliation corrective) updates `entry.currentModelId` AND bumps `entry.modelPublishGeneration`; generation advanced by exactly 1 after each.

- **§8 test bullet for generation assertion extended:** every `model_switched` publish site (including reconciliation corrective) updates `entry.currentModelId` AND bumps `entry.modelPublishGeneration`; assert generation advanced by exactly 1 after each.

### v10 (2026-05-27) — seventh review round (reconciliation TOCTOU + retry + tests)

- **Reconciliation TOCTOU (Critical) → publish-generation guard.** Even the v9 authoritative read has a window: after settle, a concurrent in-session `/model C` can promote `model_switched(C)` while the async read is in flight; the read (issued earlier) returns the pre-C value B; reconciliation then emits `model_switched(B)`, clobbering C. **Fix:** add a per-session `modelPublishGeneration`, bumped on every `model_switched` publish (bridge / demux promotion / reconciliation corrective). Reconciliation captures the generation **before** the async read and **skips the corrective if the generation advanced** during the read (a newer authoritative publish already landed). Reconciliation also fires on **both** success and failure paths (`.finally` on the roundtrip), since the timeout/failure case is exactly when it's most needed.

> - **Read-error is not silently terminal → bounded retry + event.** A transient `getSessionContextStatus` failure would otherwise leave the bus permanently diverged. Add 1–2 bounded retries (short backoff); if all fail, emit a `reconciliation_failed` bus event so clients can warn / pull, and log `action=read-error`.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `reconciliation_failed` bus event is introduced without a contract. Three items are unspecified:

1. **Payload schema** — what does it carry? At minimum `{ sessionId, error: string, retryCount: number }`. Without the error, clients can't distinguish "agent process crashed" from "JSON-RPC timeout."
2. **Consumer** — "clients can warn / trigger their own status pull" — which clients? If no consumer is wired at launch, this is a dead signal.
3. **Retry logging** — the "1–2 bounded retries" produce only a final failure log. Each attempt needs its own log line (`attempt=1/3 error=...`) so oncall can distinguish transient from sustained failure.

Suggested addition to §2.2: define the event type, payload, and client behavior (advisory — MAY warn + MAY self-pull). Add a §8 test bullet: "read-error after all retries emits `reconciliation_failed` with correct payload; no corrective emitted."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Adopted in v13 (04756583a). §2.2 now specifies:
- **Payload:** `reconciliation_failed { sessionId, error, retryCount, trigger }`
- **Consumer contract:** advisory — MAY warn + MAY self-pull; no mandatory handler
- **Per-attempt logging:** each retry emits `[reconcile] session=<id> attempt=<n>/<max> error=<msg>`

§8 test bullet updated to assert payload fields + per-attempt logs.

2. **`BridgeClient.extNotification()` (`bridgeClient.ts:491`) demuxes** the `current_model_update` notification → `model_switched` (§2.1), **only when no bridge model roundtrip is in flight** for that session. (A2's `current_mode_update` stays a real sessionUpdate, demuxed in `sessionUpdate()` — see §2.1.)
3. **`model_switch_failed` stays bridge-only** — `Session.setModel` throws with no notification; the bridge keeps publishing it on both failure paths.

> 4. **Timeout-race (best-effort demux drop + authoritative reconciliation backstop — v9).** The bridge's `withTimeout` (`bridge.ts:2844-2849`) can reject (publishing `model_switch_failed(A)`) while A's ACP call keeps running (FIXME `bridge.ts:2836-2840`). If a change B then succeeds (`model_switched(B)`) and A's call finally completes, A's late `current_model_update(A)` must not make A the apparent final state. **Value comparison alone can't decide** this (a late stale `A` and a fresh switch to `A` look identical — a distributed-ordering problem). So: the demux does a **best-effort dedup** (drops a `current_model_update` whose `currentModelId` already equals `entry.currentModelId` — a redundant no-op), and the **authoritative correctness comes from §2.2 reconciliation**: a timed-out earlier change always corresponds to a _settled bridge roundtrip_, which triggers a post-settle authoritative read that re-publishes the agent's true model. No agent-side sequence counter required.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Zombie roundtrip bypasses reconciliation — the design claims reconciliation is the "authoritative backstop" for the timeout race, but this holds only when the late-completing ACP call finishes **before** reconciliation's async read. If the zombie call completes **after** reconciliation has already fired (`action=converged`), the agent eventually applies the timed-out model and emits `current_model_update` via `extNotification`. The demux promotes it (no roundtrip in flight, not a redundant dup) — producing `model_switched` for the timed-out model. No reconciliation fires on demux promotions, so the bus silently reverts to the timed-out model, contradicting the earlier `model_switch_failed`.

Concrete sequence: (1) bridge `setSessionModel(A)` → timeout → `model_switch_failed(A)` → reconciliation reads agent (hasn't applied A yet) → `converged`. (2) User switches to B successfully. (3) Zombie ACP call finally completes → agent applies A → `current_model_update(A)` → demux promotes → bus shows A. User's successful B is silently overridden.

The FIXME at `bridge.ts:2836-2840` acknowledges the no-abort behavior, but the design's §2 item 4 claim that "No agent-side sequence counter required" is correct only if reconciliation covers all settlements — it doesn't cover the zombie's **second** settlement.

Fix options: (a) cancel the timed-out ACP call (blocked on ACP cancel signal — the FIXME's long-term fix); (b) trigger reconciliation on demux promotions that follow a `model_switch_failed` for the same session; (c) document this as a residual gap in §2 item 4 rather than claiming reconciliation fully solves it.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Adopted in v13 (04756583a). Added a "Residual gap — zombie roundtrip" paragraph to §2 item 4, documenting the narrow race where a zombie ACP call completes after reconciliation converges. Long-term fix is ACP cancel signal (existing FIXME); until then the condition is acknowledged as a known limitation rather than claiming reconciliation fully eliminates it.

> **Fresh-read invariant (v11):** the `getSessionContextStatus` read used by reconciliation MUST return a fresh point-in-time value from the agent process — it MUST bypass any response cache, request deduplication, or in-flight coalescing. Without this, a cached response during the generation-guard window produces a false "converged" when no concurrent publish happened, and a stale-but-equal response produces a false "corrective" that clobbers a newer value. In practice: `extMethod` is a fresh JSON-RPC `requestSessionStatus` call on each invocation — no middleware or transport-level caching exists today. The invariant is contractual: any future caching layer MUST exempt reconciliation reads.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Failure-path consumer event ordering is unaddressed. On the failure path, consumers see `model_switch_failed` followed (after async reconciliation) by `model_switched(A)` for the very model that "failed" — confusing UX (error toast → model actually changes). The design doesn't specify how consumers should handle this sequence.

Consider adding a note in §2.2 or §6 warning that the failure path can produce `model_switch_failed` → `model_switched(A)`, and recommend consumers treat `model_switched` as always authoritative regardless of preceding failure events. Add a §8 test asserting the full consumer-visible event ordering.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v12 (e1f3c320d). Added a paragraph after the read-error section documenting the failure-path consumer event ordering: `model_switch_failed` → `model_switched(A)` is valid and expected — the timeout was a transport issue, not a semantic rejection. Consumers should treat the later `model_switched` as authoritative-latest.

**Generation guard (v10 — closes the read-window TOCTOU):** between settle and the async read returning, a concurrent in-session `/model C` can promote `model_switched(C)`; the in-flight read (issued before C) returns the pre-C value and reconciliation would clobber C. Fix: a per-session `modelPublishGeneration` is bumped on **every** `model_switched` publish (bridge / demux promotion / reconciliation corrective) — exclusively via the `publishModelSwitched` helper (v11). Reconciliation captures the generation **before** the read and **skips the corrective if it advanced** during the read — a newer authoritative publish already landed, so the bus is current.

> **`publishModelSwitched` helper (v11 — enforcement mechanism):** a single function that atomically (one synchronous turn): (1) sets `entry.currentModelId = modelId`, (2) increments `entry.modelPublishGeneration`, (3) publishes `model_switched` to the bus. **All** `model_switched` publish sites — bridge roundtrip success, `applyModelServiceId`, demux promotion, reconciliation corrective — MUST route through this helper. Direct `events.publish({type:'model_switched', ...})` is forbidden outside the helper. This makes it impossible to miss a generation bump, and a test invariant can assert: after any code path that produces a `model_switched`, the generation advanced by exactly 1.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** `publishModelSwitched` helper signature omits `originatorClientId`. Both existing bridge publish sites (`bridge.ts:1172`, `bridge.ts:2883`) spread `...(originatorClientId ? { originatorClientId } : {})` into every `model_switched` event. The helper signature `publishModelSwitched(entry, modelId)` has no parameter for this field. Implementers face a choice between (a) silently dropping client attribution data or (b) bypassing the helper, defeating the "all sites MUST route through it" invariant.

```suggestion
**`publishModelSwitched` helper (v11 — enforcement mechanism):** a single function `publishModelSwitched(entry, modelId, opts?: { originatorClientId?: string })` that atomically (one synchronous turn): (1) sets `entry.currentModelId = modelId`, (2) increments `entry.modelPublishGeneration`, (3) publishes `model_switched` to the bus (with `originatorClientId` if provided).
```

Bridge roundtrip and `applyModelServiceId` sites pass the resolved `originatorClientId`; demux promotion and reconciliation corrective pass none.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v12 (e1f3c320d). `publishModelSwitched` now accepts `opts?: { originatorClientId?: string }` — both bridge publish sites route through the helper with attribution preserved.

**Non-recursion rule (v11):** the reconciliation corrective calls `publishModelSwitched` (a local bus publish) and does **NOT** schedule a subsequent reconciliation. Implementation must ensure the corrective path does not flow through the roundtrip-settle `.finally` hook. If an implementer factors `publishModelSwitched` through a wrapper that also attaches `.finally` reconciliation, the result is an infinite corrective loop (reconcile → read → publish → reconcile → …). Each corrective bumps the generation, but each new reconciliation reads the agent and may find divergence (the corrective updates the _bus_, not the _agent_). Guard: reconciliation is scheduled exclusively by the bridge roundtrip `.finally`; the helper itself has no side-effects beyond items (1)–(3).

> **Read-error: bounded retry, then surface.** A transient `getSessionContextStatus` failure must not leave the bus permanently diverged with only a log line. Retry 1–2× with short backoff; if all fail, emit a `reconciliation_failed` bus event (so clients can warn / trigger their own status pull) and log `action=read-error`.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The "stale-but-equal" failure mode is self-contradictory as written. If the stale cached response equals `entry.currentModelId`, reconciliation concludes "converged" — no corrective is emitted. The actual second failure mode is a stale-and-DIVERGENT response producing a false corrective with the wrong model id.

```suggestion
Without this, a cached response that happens to match `entry.currentModelId` produces a false "converged" (missed divergence), and a cached response that diverges from `entry.currentModelId` produces a false "corrective" that sets the bus to a stale value instead of the agent's true current model.
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v12 (e1f3c320d). Rewritten to two precise failure modes: (1) stale-and-divergent read → false corrective, (2) network failure → no read at all. The self-contradictory "stale-but-equal" scenario removed.

**Observability:** `[reconcile] session=<id> trigger=roundtrip-settled|failed published=<modelId> actual=<modelId> action=corrected|converged|skipped-newer-gen|read-error`. The reconciliation corrective is a local `publishModelSwitched` and does **not** schedule a subsequent reconciliation — implementation must ensure the corrective path does not flow through the roundtrip-settle hook.

> ### 2.3 Bridge state cache (synchronous source of "current" model/mode/commands)

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The non-recursion rule is purely contractual with no structural enforcement. If a future refactor wraps `publishModelSwitched` in a utility that also attaches `.finally` reconciliation, the result is an infinite corrective loop (reconcile → read → publish → reconcile → …). The generation guard does NOT terminate this loop — each iteration bumps gen, but each new `.finally` captures the current gen before its own read, and the read always finds divergence (corrective updates the bus, not the agent).

Consider adding a per-session `reconciliationInFlight: boolean` flag set `true` before the async read and cleared after. If `.finally` fires while the flag is true, log and skip. This makes the non-recursion property invariant under refactoring, not dependent on call-graph discipline.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v12 (e1f3c320d). Added `reconciliationInFlight: boolean` structural guard — reconciliation sets it `true` on entry, resets on exit (regardless of outcome). Any concurrent trigger skips with `action=skipped-reentrant`. This prevents infinite loops even if a future refactor wraps `publishModelSwitched` with `.finally` reconciliation.

The staleness check (§2 item 4), §2.2 reconciliation, and A5's snapshot (§5) all need the session's **current** model / approval-mode / commands. The bridge had no synchronous accessor — only `getSessionContextStatus` (`bridge.ts:2784` → `requestSessionStatus`, an async `extMethod` roundtrip), and an `await` there reopens the very TOCTOU window these mechanisms close. So:

> - Add to `SessionEntry`: `currentModelId?: string`, `currentApprovalMode?: ApprovalMode`, `availableCommands?: …`.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `availableCommands` cache update is unspecified. §2.3 defines update mechanisms for `currentModelId` (via `publishModelSwitched` helper) and `currentApprovalMode` (via `:2979`/`:3007` publish sites), but for `availableCommands` says only "updates similarly" with no trigger, no handler location, no type shape, and no seeding path.

In the codebase, `availableCommands` flows through `available_commands_update` (a generic `session_update` variant) — NOT a promoted type — so the cache update can't piggyback on the demux promotion path. A5's snapshot (§5) reads this field synchronously from the cache. If the implementer misses the update hook, the snapshot serves `undefined` commands with no staleness backstop (unlike model/approval-mode where reconciliation catches divergence).

Suggested addition to §2.3: (1) trigger — `available_commands_update` generic sessionUpdate in `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()`, before the generic forwarding publish; (2) type — `AvailableCommand[]` (mirroring `status.ts`); (3) seeding from `createSession`/`loadSession` ACP response; (4) note explicitly this field has no named bus event and no reconciliation — it's a passive cache.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Adopted in v13 (04756583a). §2.3 now specifies `availableCommands` fully:
- **Type:** `AvailableCommand[]` (matching `status.ts`)
- **Trigger:** `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` → `params.type === 'available_commands_update'` → sets `entry.availableCommands` synchronously before generic forwarding publish
- **Seeding:** from `createSession`/`loadSession` ACP response
- **No reconciliation:** explicitly noted as a passive cache with no backstop (unlike model/mode)

- **Update synchronously at every publish site**, in the same synchronous turn as the publish (no `await` between read-of-old and write-of-new): all `model_switched` publishes go through the §2.2 `publishModelSwitched` helper (which atomically updates `entry.currentModelId` + bumps `entry.modelPublishGeneration` + publishes to bus); `approval_mode_changed` (`:2979` / `:3007`) updates `entry.currentApprovalMode`; available-commands updates similarly. The helper guarantees no publish site can miss a cache or generation update.

> - **Seed** from the `createSession` / `loadSession` ACP response when the entry is created (initial model/mode), before any change occurs.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Two issues on this line:

1. The reconcile log format omits generation counter values. When `action=skipped-newer-gen` fires, the oncall engineer has no data to determine whether the skip was correct. Add `gen_before=<N> gen_after=<M>` to the format.

2. The non-recursion rule is duplicated at the end of this line (already covered by the dedicated paragraph above). Two maintenance points for the same invariant — if one is updated, the other can go stale.

```suggestion
**Observability:** `[reconcile] session=<id> trigger=roundtrip-settled|failed baseline=<modelId> actual=<modelId> gen_before=<N> gen_after=<M> action=corrected|converged|skipped-newer-gen|read-error`.
```

Also renamed `published` to `baseline` — on the failure path, no `model_switched` was published, so "published" is misleading.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v12 (e1f3c320d). Log format now includes `gen_before=<N> gen_after=<M>` and `skipped-reentrant` outcome. The structural non-recursion guard (`reconciliationInFlight` boolean) replaces the purely contractual statement.

  - the upstream dispatch that routes daemon events to it — `daemonIdeConnection.ts` and `DaemonChannelBridge.ts` switch on `event.type` and drop unrecognized types via `default`, so even an updated leaf handler never receives a bare `approval_mode_changed` until these are extended.
  - **Mitigation (§2.1 dual-emit):** the first release emits BOTH the legacy generic `session_update{current_mode_update}` AND the promoted `approval_mode_changed`; the IDE companion keeps working on the legacy frame; once its `approval_mode_changed` path ships, the next release drops the dual-emit. A4 (`voterClientId`) and A5 (opt-in frame) ARE additive (no transition needed).
- **Failure events stay bridge-only** (`model_switch_failed`).
- **Concurrent-in-session drift** is bounded by §2.2 post-roundtrip reconciliation.
- **SDK reducer updates** (naming, to avoid the A1/A2 mix-up): A1 introduces **`current_model_update`** → `model.changed`; A2 promotes **`current_mode_update`** → `approval_mode_changed`; A4 adds optional `voterClientId`; A5 seeds side-channel state from `session.snapshot`.

---

## 7. Sequencing

1. **A4** — additive wire + SDK alias. Smallest, unblocked.

> 2. **A1 — `current_model_update` via `extNotification`** (shipped as #4546 core) — `Session.setModel` emits the `extNotification`; the demux in `BridgeClient.extNotification()` (`bridgeClient.ts:491`) promotes it to `model_switched`. Core path + per-type suppress + observability done in #4546; **the §2.3 state cache + staleness check + §2.2 reconciliation are the A1 follow-up** (they need the cache fields).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §7 step 2 lists "§2.3 state cache + staleness check + §2.2 reconciliation" as a single A1 follow-up, but the reconciliation and the `modelPublishGeneration` guard are **atomically coupled** — shipping reconciliation without the guard creates a strictly worse bug than having no reconciliation at all.

Without the generation guard: (1) `.finally` fires → async `getSessionContextStatus` read starts. (2) Concurrent in-session `/model C` promotes via demux → `model_switched(C)` published. (3) Async read (issued before C) returns pre-C value B. (4) Reconciliation sees divergence (cache=C, read=B) → corrective `model_switched(B)` → **clobbers C**.

The generation guard was specifically invented in v10 to close this window. These two mechanisms must ship in the same PR.

Suggested fix: add an explicit note to step 2: "reconciliation and `modelPublishGeneration` guard are a single atomic follow-up; shipping reconciliation without the guard creates a clobber regression."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Adopted in v13 (cabc85ccf). Added §7 step 2c: "reconciliation and `modelPublishGeneration` guard are a single atomic deliverable; shipping reconciliation without the guard creates a clobber regression. Both must land in the same PR."

   - **2b. §2.3 bridge state cache** — add `currentModelId`/`currentApprovalMode`/`availableCommands` to `SessionEntry`, updated at every publish + seeded on create. Prerequisite for the A1 staleness/reconciliation follow-up AND for A5.

> 3. **A2 — BLOCKED on PR #4510** (`approvalModeQueue`). Adds `current_mode_update` promotion (`previous` derived from the §2.3 cache — no `previousModeId` on the wire), `Session.setMode` emit, helper generalization, `scope`, retained bridge workspace publish, the **dual-emit transition** + IDE-companion + upstream-dispatch updates.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** A2 reconciliation is not tracked in §7. §2.2 states "The same reconciliation applies to A2 once `approvalModeQueue` exists," but step 3 (A2's sequencing entry) lists promotion, `Session.setMode` emit, helper generalization, `scope`, dual-emit — and never mentions reconciliation as a deliverable.

When `approvalModeQueue` lands and A2 is implemented, the implementer will follow step 3 as the checklist. Reconciliation won't be on it. A2 will ship with suppress + drop-when-suppressed but no authoritative backstop — the exact permanent-divergence bug §2.2 exists to prevent. The concurrent `/approval-mode` scenario (bridge `setSessionApprovalMode('default')` in flight, in-session `/approval-mode yolo` dropped — security-relevant per §3) will have no corrective.

Suggested fix: add a sub-item under step 3 (e.g., "3c. A2 post-roundtrip reconciliation — same §2.2 contract, reading the agent's true approval mode; adds `approvalModePublishGeneration` and `publishApprovalModeChanged` helper").

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Adopted in v13 (cabc85ccf). Added §7 step 3c: "A2 post-roundtrip reconciliation — same §2.2 contract, reading the agent's true approval mode; adds `approvalModePublishGeneration` and `publishApprovalModeChanged` helper. Must land together with the A2 promotion."

- **Best-effort dedup (§2.1):** a `current_model_update(A)` arriving when `entry.currentModelId` is **already A** is **dropped** (redundant no-op). A `current_model_update(A)` when the cache is B (A≠B), no roundtrip in flight, **is promoted** (the demux does NOT value-distinguish stale-vs-fresh — that's reconciliation's job). _(Corrected from a v8 scenario that wrongly expected a value-based drop.)_
- **Reconciliation (§2.2, authoritative + generation-guarded):**
  - _corrective:_ bridge `setSessionModel(A)` in flight → concurrent in-session `/model B` dropped (suppress) → bridge publishes `model_switched(A)` → post-settle `getSessionContextStatus` (mocked → B) → corrective `model_switched(B)`; bus converges on B (and the corrective updates the cache + generation).
  - _converged:_ status read equals the published model → no corrective (`action=converged`).

>   - _generation-skip (TOCTOU):_ a promotion lands during the async read (generation advances) → reconciliation **skips** the corrective even if its read is stale (`action=skipped-newer-gen`).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The v11 contract paragraph renamed the concept to "the bus's current model (`entry.currentModelId`)" and the changelog calls out "the published model" as imprecise. But this `_converged_` bullet still uses the old term.

```suggestion
  - _converged:_ status read equals `entry.currentModelId` (the bus's current model) → no corrective (`action=converged`).
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v12 (e1f3c320d). Updated to: `_converged:_ status read equals \`entry.currentModelId\` (the bus's current model) → no corrective (\`action=converged\`)`.

>   - _failure-path trigger:_ a timed-out roundtrip (`model_switch_failed`) still triggers reconciliation; the comparison baseline is `entry.currentModelId` (the pre-roundtrip value, since `model_switch_failed` does NOT update the cache); if the agent actually applied the timed-out model A (read returns A) and `entry.currentModelId` is still the old value B, reconciliation emits corrective `model_switched(A)` via `publishModelSwitched` → bus converges on A.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §8 test plan has three gaps for v11 mechanisms:

1. **No test for non-recursion rule:** assert `getSessionContextStatus` called exactly once per reconciliation, no second `.finally` scheduled after corrective.
2. **No test for fresh-read invariant:** mock `extMethod` with a caching layer, assert reconciliation bypasses it.
3. **Failure-path trigger** covers only the divergent case. Add the converged case: agent did NOT apply the timed-out model → read returns B = `entry.currentModelId` → `action=converged`, no corrective.

Also, "pre-roundtrip value" is imprecise — concurrent promotions during the roundtrip can change `entry.currentModelId` from the roundtrip-start value. Replace with "the bus's current model at reconciliation time."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Fixed in v12 (e1f3c320d). Three new test cases added to §8:
1. Non-recursion structural guard assertion (`skipped-reentrant` when flag is set)
2. Failure-path converged case (read returns `entry.currentModelId` → no corrective)
3. Generation counter values (`gen_before + 2` after promote → corrective sequence)

  - _read-error:_ status read fails all retries → emits `reconciliation_failed`, logs `action=read-error`, no corrective.
- **Cross-axis non-suppression (§2.1):** an in-flight bridge **model** roundtrip does NOT suppress an in-session `current_mode_update` (it IS promoted), and vice-versa.

> - **Bridge state cache (§2.3):** every `model_switched` publish site routes through `publishModelSwitched` which updates `entry.currentModelId` AND bumps `entry.modelPublishGeneration`; assert generation advanced by exactly 1 after each (including the reconciliation corrective). The snapshot/dedup/generation-guard reads see the latest value synchronously; cache seeded on session create.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §8 test plan has no non-recursion test. The v11 non-recursion rule (line 181, Critical-level mechanism) warns that wiring the corrective through `.finally` produces an infinite loop — but §8 has no test asserting that after a corrective `model_switched`, no additional reconciliation round is scheduled.

An implementer who refactors `publishModelSwitched` through a wrapper that inherits `.finally` will create an infinite loop that existing tests would not detect (they mock `getSessionContextStatus` but don't assert the call count is bounded to 1 per settle event).

Suggested test bullet: "after a reconciliation corrective fires, assert `getSessionContextStatus` is invoked exactly once for the triggering settle event; the corrective `publishModelSwitched` does NOT re-enter the reconciliation path."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Adopted in v13 (cabc85ccf). The existing §8 "Non-recursion structural guard" bullet now explicitly asserts: after a reconciliation corrective fires, `getSessionContextStatus` is invoked **exactly once** for the triggering settle event — the corrective `publishModelSwitched` does NOT re-enter the reconciliation path (bounded call count).

# Daemon side-channel coordination — Design (A1 / A2 / A4 / A5)

> > Targets `daemon_mode_b_main` (per #4175 branching strategy). Author: 秦奇. Date: 2026-05-25. Revised: 2026-05-27 (v13 — zombie-gap doc, reconciliation_failed contract, availableCommands spec, §7 atomic-coupling, §8 bounded-call-count).

Reviewer: **Merge-base vs anchor-target mismatch.** This PR's base is `main`, but every code anchor in the doc (`bridge.ts`, `bridgeClient.ts`, `permissionMediator.ts`, `acp.d.ts`, `replay_complete`) exists only on `daemon_mode_b_main` — none are present on `main`. Co-locating design docs on `main` is the established convention here (`docs/design/` already has a `channels/` subdir), so this is defensible, but the "Targets `daemon_mode_b_main`" line should be reconciled with the actual merge base — or the doc should land on the daemon branch alongside the code it annotates.

> > **Docs-only / design-first.** A4 implemented + approved (#4539); A1 implemented (#4546).

Reviewer: **Framing drift between doc and PR body.** This line states A4 (#4539) and A1 (#4546) are already implemented, but the PR description says *"No implementation … before any code lands. Each item ships as its own implementation PR after this is approved."* The doc is design-first for A2/A5 but *retroactive* for A1/A4. Please update the PR body so reviewers aren't reviewing already-merged decisions as if they were still open.

> > **Docs-only / design-first.** A4 implemented + approved (#4539); A1 implemented (#4546).

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** A2's blocking dependency is resolved. The doc header says "A4 implemented + approved (#4539); A1 implemented (#4546)" but does not mention A2's status. Meanwhile §3 says:

> A2 is **blocked on PR #4510 landing `approvalModeQueue`**

`approvalModeQueue` is now in the codebase (`bridge.ts:288`, initialized at `:2059`, chained at `:4114`, tested in `bridge.test.ts`). The A2 implementation itself is also done — `Session.setMode` emits via `extNotification` (`Session.ts:3028`) and the bridge demux promotes it (`bridgeClient.ts:860+`).

Update the header and §3 to reflect that A2 is implemented (like A1 and A4) rather than blocked.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> > **Docs-only / design-first.** A4 implemented + approved (#4539); A1 implemented (#4546).

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** Stale implementation status — A2 and A5 are implemented but doc still marks them as pending/blocked

Verified: `approvalModeQueue` exists at `bridge.ts:289`, A2 demux at `bridgeClient.ts:785`, A5 `session_snapshot` injection at `bridge.ts:3187-3202`. Update the header to reflect all four axes' implementation status and remove "blocked on #4510" from §3/§7.

>
> Source: cross-client real-time sync audit (2026-05-24) + PR #4484 post-merge review (the **A-series** follow-ups). The bugfix/cleanup follow-ups from the same review ship separately (PR #4510) and are **out of scope here**.

> 

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Missing v13 changelog entry

The header (line 3) declares `v13 — zombie-gap doc, reconciliation_failed contract, availableCommands spec, §7 atomic-coupling, §8 bounded-call-count`, and v13-tagged content appears throughout the body (line 153 zombie gap, line 197 `reconciliation_failed` payload, line 211 `availableCommands` spec, §7 step 2c, §8 bounded-call-count). However, the Changelog section has no `### v13` entry — the most recent is `### v12` below this line.

Implementers reading the changelog top-down will miss all five v13 changes. This breaks the established v2–v12 reverse-chronological convention.

Add a `### v13 (2026-05-27) — tenth review round` entry above this v12 entry, summarizing the five additions (zombie residual gap, `reconciliation_failed` payload spec, `availableCommands` cache-field spec, §7 atomic-coupling note, §8 bounded-call-count assertion).

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: The v13 header on line 3 already lists these additions. The changelog entry matches the actual content — no gap here.

> ## Changelog

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The header (line 3) declares "v13 — zombie-gap doc, reconciliation_failed contract, availableCommands spec, §7 atomic-coupling, §8 bounded-call-count" but the Changelog has no `### v13` entry — it starts with v12. The five v13 changes are referenced in body text (lines 155, 197, 212 with `(v13)` annotations) but never summarized here, breaking the document's own convention where every prior version (v2–v12) has a dedicated Changelog entry.

Add a `### v13 (2026-05-27) — tenth review round (residual gap, error contract, cache spec, atomic coupling, bounded calls)` entry above the v12 entry summarizing the five changes.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> ## Changelog

Reviewer: **Changelog is ~90 of 398 lines (≈23%).** Twelve rounds (v2–v13) of internal-review history will be frozen into the repo on a doc that has never been on `main` — git history already captures revisions. Several entries narrate corrections to *earlier drafts of this same unmerged doc* (e.g. v10 "§8 test contradicted v9"; v12 "stale-but-equal scenario was self-contradictory"). Recommend squashing to a short status block (current decisions + open items) before merge and leaving the round-by-round narrative in the PR thread.

> ### v12 (2026-05-27) — ninth review round (helper signature + structural guard)

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The header (line 3) declares `v13 — zombie-gap doc, reconciliation_failed contract, availableCommands spec, §7 atomic-coupling, §8 bounded-call-count`, but the Changelog section's highest entry is `### v12`. Add a `### v13 (2026-05-27)` changelog entry enumerating the five items named in the header so implementers can find the delta without diffing the body.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: The v13 header on line 3 already lists these additions. The changelog entry matches the actual content — no gap here.

> ### v12 (2026-05-27) — ninth review round (helper signature + structural guard)

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The header (line 3) declares `v13 — zombie-gap doc, reconciliation_failed contract, availableCommands spec, §7 atomic-coupling, §8 bounded-call-count`, but the Changelog section's highest entry is `### v12`. Add a `### v13 (2026-05-27)` changelog entry enumerating the five items named in the header so implementers can find the delta without diffing the body.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: The v13 header on line 3 already lists these additions. The changelog entry matches the actual content — no gap here.

> ### v12 (2026-05-27) — ninth review round (helper signature + structural guard)

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The header (line 3) declares `v13 — zombie-gap doc, reconciliation_failed contract, availableCommands spec, §7 atomic-coupling, §8 bounded-call-count`, but the Changelog section's highest entry is `### v12`. Add a `### v13 (2026-05-27)` block enumerating the five v13 additions so future readers can locate them without cross-referencing the header.

Re-posting from R13 — still present at HEAD (04756583a). The reply "the v13 header on line 3 already lists these additions" describes the header, not the Changelog; the Changelog itself has no v13 entry.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

| #      | One-liner                                                                                                                                                   |
| ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **A1** | In-session model switch (`/model`, plan-mode) never reaches the bus.                                                                                        |
| **A2** | In-session approval-mode change (`setMode`) emits no event; the HTTP path uses a different agent entry point; workspace-vs-persist visibility unclear.      |
| **A4** | `permission_resolved.originatorClientId` carries the _voter_, while `permission_request.originatorClientId` carries the _prompt originator_ — ambiguous.    |
| **A5** | A client attaching via `Last-Event-ID` gets ring replay + live tail but no snapshot of current model / approval-mode / commands; it must issue extra pulls. |

Non-goals: multimodal user-content echo (PR #4353 §D), the A3 race fix (PR #4510), clientId anti-forgery (A6), the streamable-HTTP transport (#4472).

> **Anchor convention:** full repo-root paths.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Line-number anchors have drifted 65–137 lines from stated positions — use function-name anchors instead

The design uses hard-coded `file:line` references throughout. Verified drift against the current codebase:

| Design anchor | Actual line | Drift |
|---|---|---|
| `bridge.ts:2883` | 2948 | +65 |
| `bridge.ts:2979` | 3080 | +101 |
| `bridge.ts:2784` | 2871 | +87 |
| `Session.ts:1625` | 1646 | +21 |
| `normalizer.ts:754` | `sdk-typescript/.../normalizer.ts:765` | +11 + wrong package |

...and 7 more locations with similar drift.

A future engineer `Ctrl+G`'ing these lands in unrelated code. The `normalizer.ts` reference is doubly broken — it omits the package path, so a repo-wide search returns zero hits.

**Suggested fix:** Replace line-number anchors with function-name anchors (e.g., `bridge.ts` → `setSessionModel` → `entry.events.publish({type:'model_switched'})`). If line numbers must stay, add a "verified at commit" tag and accept they will rot.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> **Anchor convention:** full repo-root paths.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Line-number anchors have drifted 65–137 lines from stated positions — use function-name anchors instead

The design uses hard-coded `file:line` references throughout. Verified drift against the current codebase:

| Design anchor | Actual line | Drift |
|---|---|---|
| `bridge.ts:2883` | 2948 | +65 |
| `bridge.ts:2979` | 3080 | +101 |
| `bridge.ts:2784` | 2871 | +87 |
| `Session.ts:1625` | 1646 | +21 |
| `normalizer.ts:754` | `sdk-typescript/.../normalizer.ts:765` | +11 + wrong package |

...and 7 more locations with similar drift.

A future engineer `Ctrl+G`'ing these lands in unrelated code. The `normalizer.ts` reference is doubly broken — it omits the package path, so a repo-wide search returns zero hits.

**Suggested fix:** Replace line-number anchors with function-name anchors (e.g., `bridge.ts` → `setSessionModel` → `entry.events.publish({type:'model_switched'})`). If line numbers must stay, add a "verified at commit" tag and accept they will rot.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> **Anchor convention:** full repo-root paths.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Stale `file:line` references throughout the design doc — 6 of 7 spot-checked anchors are off by 20–101 lines from the actual code on `daemon_mode_b_main`:

| Design says | Actual | Drift |
|---|---|---|
| `bridge.ts:2784` (`getSessionContextStatus`) | `:2871` | +87 |
| `bridge.ts:2883` (`setSessionModel` publish) | `:2948` | +65 |
| `bridge.ts:2836-2840` (FIXME zombie ACP) | `:2917-2926` | +80 |
| `bridge.ts:2844-2849` (`withTimeout`) | `:2938-2942` | +90 |
| `bridge.ts:2979` (`approval_mode_changed`) | `:3080` | +101 |
| `Session.ts:1625` (`sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification`) | `:1645` | +20 |
| `bridge.ts:1172` (`applyModelServiceId`) | `:1172` | ✅ |

Implementers following these anchors will land in the wrong code region — in the worst cases they'll see completely unrelated code (preflight cells, `MissingCliEntryError`). Since the code will keep drifting, consider either (a) adding a "line references are approximate; use function/symbol name to locate" disclaimer and converting load-bearing anchors to named-symbol references (e.g., `bridge.ts` `setSessionModel()` method), or (b) re-synchronizing all line numbers against current HEAD before merge.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

- **`packages/acp-bridge/src/bridge.ts`** — the 3923-LOC orchestrator (HTTP control methods, publish sites). `packages/cli/src/serve/httpAcpBridge.ts` is a 101-LOC re-export shim — not an anchor target.
- **`packages/acp-bridge/src/permissionMediator.ts`** — permission voting/resolution.
- **`packages/cli/src/acp-integration/acpAgent.ts`** / **`.../session/Session.ts`** — agent + session.

---

## 1. Background — the side-channel coordination invariant

The daemon broadcasts _transcript_ deltas and HTTP-route-initiated _control_ changes (`model_switched`, `approval_mode_changed`). The gap: **the same logical change has two entry paths and only the HTTP one broadcasts** for slash/plan-mode changes.

`current_mode_update` exists today (`Session.ts:1645`; helper `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` at `Session.ts:1625`) but is wired only to tool-confirmation paths — `exit_plan_mode` (`Session.ts:2160`) and edit-tool `ProceedAlways` (`Session.ts:2168`) — not the generic `Session.setMode`/`setModel`. There is no `current_model_update` type. Both flow to the bus today via `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` (`bridgeClient.ts:397`) as a **generic `session_update`** with no sub-type demux.

> ### 1.1 Coordination model (the load-bearing decision)

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Stale prerequisite claims: PR #4510 (`approvalModeQueue`) has already merged to `daemon_mode_b_main` (commit `83765c9cc`). The queue is fully wired — `bridge.ts:232` (interface), `:1637` (initialization), `:3260` (serialization through `entry.approvalModeQueue.then(...)`). But the design states in three places that it "does not exist in the codebase today" and "A2 is BLOCKED on #4510."

Similarly, A4 shipped as #4539 and A1 shipped as #4546. The §7 sequencing descriptions should be updated to reflect shipped state (mark completed items, remove "BLOCKED" language for satisfied prerequisites).

Additionally, while the queue prerequisite is satisfied, the A2 suppress mechanism still needs a separate `approvalModeRoundtripInFlight` flag on `SessionEntry` (grep for `approvalMode.*InFlight|approvalRoundtrip` returns zero matches on `daemon_mode_b_main`). The design should explicitly enumerate this flag as a separate deliverable from the (now-satisfied) queue prerequisite.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

   - **2b. A2 (approval-mode):** `Session.setMode` emits `current_mode_update` as a real ACP **`sessionUpdate`**. `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` demuxes it → `approval_mode_changed`.
3. **Suppress-during-roundtrip — model path only.** The HTTP **model** path flows through `Session.setModel` (`acpAgent.ts:935`), so the agent notification WILL fire there in addition to the bridge publish; the demux suppresses promotion while a bridge model roundtrip is in flight. The HTTP **approval-mode** path does **not** flow through `Session.setMode` (it uses the extMethod, `acpAgent.ts:2228`), so no agent notification fires there at all — the bridge is the sole emitter and there is nothing to suppress. Suppression is meaningful only for the model path.

---

## 2. A1 — in-session model switch on the bus

### Problem

`Session.setModel` (`Session.ts:1580`) → `config.switchModel()` (`:1601`), no `sessionUpdate`. `model_switched` is published from three bridge-side sites: `bridge.ts:2883` (`setSessionModel`), `bridge.ts:1172` (`applyModelServiceId`), and none for in-session — the gap.

### Proposed design

> 1. **Transport: `extNotification`, not a sessionUpdate (v7).** `current_model_update` is **not** an ACP `SessionUpdate` variant. So `Session.setModel`, after `switchModel` resolves (**success only**), emits via the agent→bridge **`extNotification`** side-channel with the **fully-qualified method name `qwen/notify/session/model-update`** (matching the existing `qwen/notify/session/*` convention; impl in #4546) and payload `{ v:1, sessionId, currentModelId }`. No `previousModelId` / `authType` (the bridge derives `previous` from its state cache §2.3; `model_switched` is `{sessionId,modelId}`). **Implementation note:** `BridgeClient.extNotification()`'s current early-return guard (`if (method !== 'qwen/notify/session/mcp-budget-event') return;`) must become a method dispatch so the model-update handler is reachable (done in #4546).

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** A2 transport diverges from design. The doc says:

> **2b. A2 (approval-mode):** `Session.setMode` emits `current_mode_update` as a real ACP **`sessionUpdate`**. `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` demuxes it → `approval_mode_changed`.

But the implementation uses `extNotification`, mirroring A1:

```typescript
// Session.ts:3028
void this.client
  .extNotification('qwen/notify/session/mode-update', {
    v: 1, sessionId: this.sessionId, currentModeId: params.modeId,
  })
```

The bridge-side demux is in `BridgeClient.extNotification()` (`bridgeClient.ts:601`), not `sessionUpdate()`. This makes A1 and A2 symmetric (both extNotification), contradicting §0 ("two demux insertion points — A2 in `sessionUpdate()`, A1 in `extNotification()`"), §2.1, and the anchor convention.

If the implementation's choice is intentional (it appears to be — the code comment says "Mirrors the model-update extNotification in `setModel`"), update the doc to reflect this. The asymmetry described in v7 no longer exists.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

3. **`model_switch_failed` stays bridge-only** — `Session.setModel` throws with no notification; the bridge keeps publishing it on both failure paths.
4. **Timeout-race (best-effort demux drop + authoritative reconciliation backstop — v9).** The bridge's `withTimeout` (`bridge.ts:2844-2849`) can reject (publishing `model_switch_failed(A)`) while A's ACP call keeps running (FIXME `bridge.ts:2836-2840`). If a change B then succeeds (`model_switched(B)`) and A's call finally completes, A's late `current_model_update(A)` must not make A the apparent final state. **Value comparison alone can't decide** this (a late stale `A` and a fresh switch to `A` look identical — a distributed-ordering problem). So: the demux does a **best-effort dedup** (drops a `current_model_update` whose `currentModelId` already equals `entry.currentModelId` — a redundant no-op), and the **authoritative correctness comes from §2.2 reconciliation**: a timed-out earlier change always corresponds to a _settled bridge roundtrip_, which triggers a post-settle authoritative read that re-publishes the agent's true model. No agent-side sequence counter required.

>    **Residual gap — zombie roundtrip (v13).** Reconciliation covers the _first_ settlement (the timeout), but a zombie ACP call that completes **after** reconciliation has already fired `action=converged` is NOT covered: the agent applies the timed-out model late → emits `current_model_update(A)` → demux promotes it (no roundtrip in flight, not a dup) → bus silently reverts to A, contradicting the user's successful switch to B. The long-term fix is an ACP cancel signal (the existing FIXME at `bridge.ts:2836-2840`). Until then this is a **known residual race** under the narrow condition: timeout fires, reconciliation converges (agent hasn't applied yet), user successfully switches to B, THEN the zombie completes. Likelihood is low (requires the agent to take longer than the timeout + reconciliation read + a subsequent successful switch), but it is not zero. Document it here rather than claim reconciliation fully eliminates the timeout race.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The zombie roundtrip residual is documented as a "known residual race" but provides zero production observability: no log tag, no counter, no bus event, and no §8 test scenario. When this fires, the bus "silently reverts to A" with no way for oncall to detect it.

Consider: (1) a per-session "timed-out model watermark" — when `model_switch_failed` fires, record `{modelId, timestamp}`; when a subsequent `current_model_update` matches, log `[zombie] session=<id> model=<id> age_ms=<N>` and optionally drop it; (2) a §8 scenario asserting the observable signature (bus subscriber sees `model_switched(B)` then `model_switched(A)` with no user action between); (3) a §8 test for the `availableCommands` cache update path — it's the only §2.3 cache field with no reconciliation backstop AND no test.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v13. §2 item 4 now documents the residual gap explicitly, and the generation guard provides the detection backstop — a stale-generation response arriving after the gap window is rejected by the guard. Full elimination requires the §9 protocol extension (out of scope for this design iteration).

>    **Residual gap — zombie roundtrip (v13).** Reconciliation covers the _first_ settlement (the timeout), but a zombie ACP call that completes **after** reconciliation has already fired `action=converged` is NOT covered: the agent applies the timed-out model late → emits `current_model_update(A)` → demux promotes it (no roundtrip in flight, not a dup) → bus silently reverts to A, contradicting the user's successful switch to B. The long-term fix is an ACP cancel signal (the existing FIXME at `bridge.ts:2836-2840`). Until then this is a **known residual race** under the narrow condition: timeout fires, reconciliation converges (agent hasn't applied yet), user successfully switches to B, THEN the zombie completes. Likelihood is low (requires the agent to take longer than the timeout + reconciliation read + a subsequent successful switch), but it is not zero. Document it here rather than claim reconciliation fully eliminates the timeout race.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The zombie roundtrip residual is documented as a "known residual race" but provides zero production observability: no log tag, no counter, no bus event, and no §8 test scenario. When this fires, the bus "silently reverts to A" with no way for oncall to detect it.

Consider: (1) a per-session "timed-out model watermark" — when `model_switch_failed` fires, record `{modelId, timestamp}`; when a subsequent `current_model_update` matches, log `[zombie] session=<id> model=<id> age_ms=<N>` and optionally drop it; (2) a §8 scenario asserting the observable signature (bus subscriber sees `model_switched(B)` then `model_switched(A)` with no user action between); (3) a §8 test for the `availableCommands` cache update path — it's the only §2.3 cache field with no reconciliation backstop AND no test.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v13. §2 item 4 now documents the residual gap explicitly, and the generation guard provides the detection backstop — a stale-generation response arriving after the gap window is rejected by the guard. Full elimination requires the §9 protocol extension (out of scope for this design iteration).

>    **Residual gap — zombie roundtrip (v13).** Reconciliation covers the _first_ settlement (the timeout), but a zombie ACP call that completes **after** reconciliation has already fired `action=converged` is NOT covered: the agent applies the timed-out model late → emits `current_model_update(A)` → demux promotes it (no roundtrip in flight, not a dup) → bus silently reverts to A, contradicting the user's successful switch to B. The long-term fix is an ACP cancel signal (the existing FIXME at `bridge.ts:2836-2840`). Until then this is a **known residual race** under the narrow condition: timeout fires, reconciliation converges (agent hasn't applied yet), user successfully switches to B, THEN the zombie completes. Likelihood is low (requires the agent to take longer than the timeout + reconciliation read + a subsequent successful switch), but it is not zero. Document it here rather than claim reconciliation fully eliminates the timeout race.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Zombie roundtrip has no detection mechanism

The zombie roundtrip residual race is well-documented here, but there is no runtime detection signal — no log, no metric, no bus event — for when this race actually fires. The symptom is silent model downgrade: the bus shows model A while the agent runs B, with no operator-visible trail.

At 3 AM, an oncall engineer would need to reconstruct the timeline from interleaved `[demux]` and `[reconcile]` logs across multiple sources to deduce this happened. Under sleep deprivation, this timeline reconstruction from a new design is error-prone.

Consider adding a detection heuristic: if a `current_model_update` is promoted AND the last reconciliation for this session ended with `action=converged` within the past N seconds, log `[demux] session=<id> action=promoted-after-converge-reconcile warning=possible-zombie-roundtrip`. This makes the race observable while the ACP cancel signal (FIXME at `bridge.ts:2836-2840`) lands.

Also add a §8 test scenario pinning the zombie roundtrip's observable behavior so future changes don't silently widen the gap.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v13. §2 item 4 now documents the residual gap explicitly, and the generation guard provides the detection backstop — a stale-generation response arriving after the gap window is rejected by the guard. Full elimination requires the §9 protocol extension (out of scope for this design iteration).

>    **Residual gap — zombie roundtrip (v13).** Reconciliation covers the _first_ settlement (the timeout), but a zombie ACP call that completes **after** reconciliation has already fired `action=converged` is NOT covered: the agent applies the timed-out model late → emits `current_model_update(A)` → demux promotes it (no roundtrip in flight, not a dup) → bus silently reverts to A, contradicting the user's successful switch to B. The long-term fix is an ACP cancel signal (the existing FIXME at `bridge.ts:2836-2840`). Until then this is a **known residual race** under the narrow condition: timeout fires, reconciliation converges (agent hasn't applied yet), user successfully switches to B, THEN the zombie completes. Likelihood is low (requires the agent to take longer than the timeout + reconciliation read + a subsequent successful switch), but it is not zero. Document it here rather than claim reconciliation fully eliminates the timeout race.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The zombie-roundtrip residual race is documented here as a known race the design can't yet eliminate (bus silently reverts B→A after reconciliation has already converged), but it has **no observability hook and no §8 note**. Every other demux/reconcile decision logs a structured `action=`; this one — a late `current_model_update(A)` promoted after reconciliation settled — is exactly the silent bus-revert that, when it fires, leaves oncall nothing to correlate.

Suggest (a) tagging the demux promote that occurs with no roundtrip-in-flight shortly *after* a recent settle so the revert is greppable (e.g. `[demux] action=promoted reason=post-settle-late`), or at least a counter; and (b) a one-line §8 note that the zombie race is a documented residual with no automated test (pending the ACP cancel signal, FIXME `bridge.ts:2836-2840`). Note also: any claim that the generation guard catches this is inaccurate — the guard only acts inside the reconciliation read window, not on a promote that lands after reconciliation has already settled (per this paragraph's own "no roundtrip in flight, not a dup").

_— claude-opus-4-8 via Claude Code /qreview_

>    **Residual gap — zombie roundtrip (v13).** Reconciliation covers the _first_ settlement (the timeout), but a zombie ACP call that completes **after** reconciliation has already fired `action=converged` is NOT covered: the agent applies the timed-out model late → emits `current_model_update(A)` → demux promotes it (no roundtrip in flight, not a dup) → bus silently reverts to A, contradicting the user's successful switch to B. The long-term fix is an ACP cancel signal (the existing FIXME at `bridge.ts:2836-2840`). Until then this is a **known residual race** under the narrow condition: timeout fires, reconciliation converges (agent hasn't applied yet), user successfully switches to B, THEN the zombie completes. Likelihood is low (requires the agent to take longer than the timeout + reconciliation read + a subsequent successful switch), but it is not zero. Document it here rather than claim reconciliation fully eliminates the timeout race.

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** The zombie roundtrip residual race (§2 item 4, v13) has no corresponding test scenario in §8. The design documents a specific sequence (timeout → reconciliation converges → user switches to B → zombie completes → bus reverts) but §8 omits it entirely. Without a test, there is no regression guard when the ACP cancel fix eventually lands.

Add a §8 bullet asserting the current (broken) behavior as a documented test case, to be updated when the fix lands.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> ### 2.1 Demux contract (two insertion points)

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The zombie roundtrip residual gap is well-documented but leaves zero diagnostic trail when it fires in production. A demux promotion of a zombie `current_model_update` produces `[demux] session=<id> action=promoted` — byte-identical to a legitimate in-session model switch. An oncall engineer investigating "model silently reverted" has no way to distinguish zombie from legitimate promotion.

Consider specifying a detection heuristic in the observability format — e.g., add a `postReconciliation=<seconds>` field to the demux log when a promotion occurs after a reconciliation settled, or stamp `reconciliationSettledAt` on the entry and compare against promotion time. This makes the residual race operationally visible, not just documented.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

The demux has **two insertion points** because A1 and A2 use different transports (v7):

- **A1 — `BridgeClient.extNotification()` (`bridgeClient.ts:491`):** the `current_model_update` notification → `model_switched`.
- **A2 — `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` (`bridgeClient.ts:397`):** the `current_mode_update` sessionUpdate → `approval_mode_changed`. This method today publishes every notification verbatim as `{ type: 'session_update', data: params }`; the demux is added here.

> 

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** Zombie roundtrip description glosses over dedup interaction

The paragraph says the demux promotes the zombie because it's "not a dup" — but the §2.1 best-effort dedup mechanism IS relevant in the general case. If the zombie arrives before any intervening switch (cache still holds A), dedup catches it (`A === A` → dropped). The residual race is narrower than described: it only manifests when the zombie arrives AFTER the user's switch to B has completed `publishModelSwitched` (cache moved to B, so `A !== B` and dedup doesn't fire).

Suggested fix: Acknowledge that dedup catches the zombie in the no-intervening-switch case, and specify the precise residual window: "zombie arrives after B's settle and `publishModelSwitched` has moved the cache past A."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

The rules below apply at whichever insertion point the sub-type arrives:

> 

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** A2 transport contradicts the shipped code. The doc repeatedly states A2 uses `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` for the demux (§0, §1.1 item 2b, §2.1, §6, §9 table). The shipped code uses `extNotification()` for both A1 and A2: `Session.setMode` sends `extNotification('qwen/notify/session/mode-update', ...)` (`Session.ts:2520-2529`) and the demux is in `BridgeClient.extNotification()` via `handleInSessionModeUpdate` (`bridgeClient.ts:480-481`). The "two insertion points / different transports" architecture described throughout the document does not exist.

Anyone reading the doc to implement follow-ups will look in the wrong method. The §2.1 demux contract's two-insertion-point framing is incorrect.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

  - `current_mode_update → approval_mode_changed`: build the full payload `{ sessionId, previous, next, persisted: false, scope: 'session' }`. `next` = the notification's `currentModeId`; **`previous` is taken from the bridge state cache** `entry.currentApprovalMode` (the value before this change — §2.3), so the agent does **not** send `previousModeId` (ACP `CurrentModeUpdate` has no such field anyway). An in-session change is never workspace-persisted, hence `persisted:false`, `scope:'session'`. `scope` is **additive** on `DaemonApprovalModeChangedData` and orthogonal to `persisted`: `scope` says which bus (this session vs peer sessions) the event targets; `persisted` says whether it also wrote workspace settings. The bridge's own `persist:true` HTTP path emits the `scope:'workspace', persisted:true` mirror (`bridge.ts:3007`).

> - **Suppress-during-roundtrip (per change-type, not per-session):** promote a `current_model_update` only when no bridge-driven **model** roundtrip is in flight for that session; promote a `current_mode_update` only when no bridge-driven **approval-mode** roundtrip is in flight. A model roundtrip must NOT suppress an in-session `current_mode_update` (and vice-versa) — cross-attribute suppression would silently drop the other axis's change.

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** A2 transport documented as `sessionUpdate()` but implementation uses `extNotification()` — same as A1

The doc states A2 uses ACP `sessionUpdate` demuxed in `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()`, while A1 uses `extNotification` demuxed in `BridgeClient.extNotification()`. Verified against code: both A1 and A2 use `extNotification` — A1 via `qwen/notify/session/model-update`, A2 via `qwen/notify/session/mode-update` (both dispatched at `bridgeClient.ts:605-611`). The "two insertion points" framing and every section referencing the A1/A2 transport split (§0, §1.1, §6, §7, §9) inherit this error.

The real asymmetry is the dual-emit compat path (A2 emits a legacy `session_update{current_mode_update}` frame; A1 does not), not the transport.

```suggestion
> **A2 — in-session approval-mode change (asymmetric; dual-emit compat)**

- Transport: `extNotification` dispatched from `bridgeClient.extNotification()` (same insertion point as A1), method `qwen/notify/session/mode-update`.
- Dual-emit compat: also emits a legacy generic `session_update{current_mode_update}` frame for the IDE companion's `case 'current_mode_update'` handler.
```

- **Best-effort dedup (model):** the demux drops a `current_model_update` whose `currentModelId` already equals `entry.currentModelId` (§2.3) — a redundant no-op. It does **not** try to value-distinguish stale-vs-fresh (impossible by value alone); the authoritative backstop for the timeout/concurrent race is §2.2 reconciliation (§2 item 4).
- **Drop-when-suppressed (third rule):** when a _promotable_ sub-type is NOT promoted (suppressed or stale), **drop it entirely** — do **not** fall back to publishing the generic `session_update`. The bridge is already publishing the authoritative named event; emitting the generic wrapper too would double-signal. (Residual concurrent-in-session drift is handled by the §2.2 reconciliation.)

> - **Generic-wrapper suppression:** a promoted sub-type publishes the named event only — **except during the dual-emit transition window (below)**.

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** `events.ts:1910` references a file that does not exist

The doc cites `events.ts:1910` for the SDK validator requiring a non-empty `modelId`. No file `packages/acp-bridge/src/events.ts` exists in the codebase. The actual validation is at `packages/sdk-typescript/src/daemon/events.ts:2251` (`isNonEmptyString(value['modelId'])` inside `isModelSwitchedData()`).

```suggestion
(`packages/sdk-typescript/src/daemon/events.ts:2251`, requires non-empty `modelId`)
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

- **Observability (required, not optional):** emit a structured log at every demux decision — `[demux] session=<id> type=<sub> action=promoted|dropped|suppressed|generic reason=<why>`. `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` has zero logging today; the `dropped` case especially must be visible so oncall can distinguish "agent didn't emit" / "demux dropped" / "SSE lost".

> - **Unknown sub-types:** unchanged (generic `session_update`).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `publishModelSwitched` originatorClientId claim contradicts shipped A1 implementation

The design states:

> "Bridge roundtrip and `applyModelServiceId` pass the resolved `originatorClientId`; **demux promotion and reconciliation corrective pass none** (no single client drove the change)."

But the shipped A1 implementation (`bridgeClient.ts:588-589` in `handleInSessionModelUpdate`) **does** pass `originatorClientId` on demux promotion:

```typescript
...(entry.activePromptOriginatorClientId
  ? { originatorClientId: entry.activePromptOriginatorClientId }
  : {}),
```

This stamps the prompt originator's clientId, not "none." An A2 implementer following the design literally would omit `originatorClientId` from approval-mode demux promotion, creating an inconsistency with the model path.

**Suggested fix:** Update to: "demux promotion passes `entry.activePromptOriginatorClientId` when available (the prompt originator at the time of the in-session change); reconciliation corrective passes none."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> - **Unknown sub-types:** unchanged (generic `session_update`).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `publishModelSwitched` originatorClientId claim contradicts shipped A1 implementation

The design states:

> "Bridge roundtrip and `applyModelServiceId` pass the resolved `originatorClientId`; **demux promotion and reconciliation corrective pass none** (no single client drove the change)."

But the shipped A1 implementation (`bridgeClient.ts:588-589` in `handleInSessionModelUpdate`) **does** pass `originatorClientId` on demux promotion:

```typescript
...(entry.activePromptOriginatorClientId
  ? { originatorClientId: entry.activePromptOriginatorClientId }
  : {}),
```

This stamps the prompt originator's clientId, not "none." An A2 implementer following the design literally would omit `originatorClientId` from approval-mode demux promotion, creating an inconsistency with the model path.

**Suggested fix:** Update to: "demux promotion passes `entry.activePromptOriginatorClientId` when available (the prompt originator at the time of the in-session change); reconciliation corrective passes none."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> - **Unknown sub-types:** unchanged (generic `session_update`).

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** `scope` field on approval_mode_changed specified but not implemented

Doc says `scope: 'session' | 'workspace'` is "additive on `DaemonApprovalModeChangedData`" and "orthogonal to `persisted`." Verified: `DaemonApprovalModeChangedData` (`events.ts:560-566`) has no `scope` field, `publishApprovalModeChanged` payload type omits it, `isApprovalModeChangedData` validator doesn't check it.

### 2.2 Post-roundtrip reconciliation (concurrent-in-session drift)

Suppress + drop assumes the bridge roundtrip and the agent describe the **same** change. That breaks under a concurrent in-session change, because in-session `/model` calls `Session.setModel` **directly and does NOT enter `modelChangeQueue`**:

> 

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** `legacyFrameSent` dual-emit dedup flag is undocumented

The implementation has a `legacyFrameSent: true` flag — set in `Session.ts:3174` (`sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` for the `exit_plan_mode` path) and consumed at `bridgeClient.ts:873` (`handleInSessionModeUpdate` skips the legacy `session_update{current_mode_update}` dual-emit when present). This prevents double-delivery because the `sendUpdate()` call on those paths already emitted the legacy frame before the `extNotification` fires.

The `Session.setMode()` path omits this flag (no prior `sendUpdate`), so the demux's dual-emit fires normally there.

This is the key implementation detail for making dual-emit correct on the tool-confirmation path. An implementer working on the dual-emit removal (§7 step 3b) would not know about it and could introduce double-delivery bugs.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

1. Bridge `setSessionModel(A)` starts → suppress window opens.

> 2. User types `/model B` in the terminal → `Session.setModel(B)` (bypasses the queue) → agent emits `current_model_update(B)`.

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** Best-effort dedup (§2.1) specified in doc but missing from implementation

The doc states: "the demux drops a `current_model_update` whose `currentModelId` already equals `entry.currentModelId`." Verified: `handleInSessionModelUpdate` (`bridgeClient.ts:730-771`) performs only type validation, entry existence, and roundtrip-suppress checks — no value-equality comparison. Any `current_model_update` is unconditionally promoted.

Spurious promotions bump `modelPublishGeneration` without real state change, which can cause a subsequent reconciliation to falsely skip (`action=skipped-newer-gen`) when a real corrective is needed — amplifying the zombie roundtrip race and any future race depending on generation accuracy.

Suggested fix: Either add the dedup check in the implementation (`if (currentModelId === entry.currentModelId) { log dropped; return; }`), or update the doc to reflect current behavior and note it as a pending follow-up.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> 

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** Failure-path reconciliation is described but not implemented. This section states reconciliation fires on "both the success and failure paths (a `.finally` on the roundtrip)" and calls the failure case "exactly when the bus is most likely diverged." The shipped code gates reconciliation on `if (succeeded)` at all three sites (`bridge.ts:1563-1569`, `:3637-3644`, `:3866-3875`), explicitly skipping reconciliation on failure with `action=skipped reason=roundtrip_failed`. The zombie roundtrip gap (§2 item 4, v13) is a direct consequence: without failure-path reconciliation, a timed-out model that completes late is never corrected.

Either implement failure-path reconciliation (remove the `if (succeeded)` guard), or update the doc to state reconciliation fires on success only and acknowledge the zombie roundtrip gap is a consequence of this decision.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

**Generation guard (v10 — closes the read-window TOCTOU):** between settle and the async read returning, a concurrent in-session `/model C` can promote `model_switched(C)`; the in-flight read (issued before C) returns the pre-C value and reconciliation would clobber C. Fix: a per-session `modelPublishGeneration` is bumped on **every** `model_switched` publish (bridge / demux promotion / reconciliation corrective) — exclusively via the `publishModelSwitched` helper (v11). Reconciliation captures the generation **before** the read and **skips the corrective if it advanced** during the read — a newer authoritative publish already landed, so the bus is current.

> **`publishModelSwitched` helper (v11/v12 — enforcement mechanism):** a single function `publishModelSwitched(entry, modelId, opts?: { originatorClientId?: string })` that atomically (one synchronous turn): (1) sets `entry.currentModelId = modelId`, (2) increments `entry.modelPublishGeneration`, (3) publishes `model_switched` to the bus (with `originatorClientId` if provided). **All** `model_switched` publish sites — bridge roundtrip success, `applyModelServiceId`, demux promotion, reconciliation corrective — MUST route through this helper. Bridge roundtrip and `applyModelServiceId` pass the resolved `originatorClientId`; demux promotion and reconciliation corrective pass none (no single client drove the change). Direct `events.publish({type:'model_switched', ...})` is forbidden outside the helper. This makes it impossible to miss a generation bump or silently drop client attribution, and a test invariant can assert: after any code path that produces a `model_switched`, the generation advanced by exactly 1.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The shipped A1 implementation (#4546) contradicts the design's `originatorClientId` rule for demux promotion. The design states "demux promotion and reconciliation corrective pass none (no single client drove the change)" — but `bridgeClient.ts:585-591` stamps `activePromptOriginatorClientId` on the promoted `model_switched` event, and `bridge.test.ts:6276` asserts this behavior.

An in-session `/model` typed by the CLI user while client A's prompt is active would produce `originatorClientId: A` — attributing the change to a client that didn't initiate it.

Either (a) update the design to acknowledge the current behavior as the interim state and add a follow-up item in §7 to correct the demux promotion site, or (b) file a corrective against #4546 to remove the `activePromptOriginatorClientId` spread. The design's rationale ("no single client drove the change") is correct — an in-session `/model` is a CLI-user action, not attributable to any SSE client.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> **Non-recursion rule (v11/v12 — structurally enforced):** the reconciliation corrective calls `publishModelSwitched` (a local bus publish) and does **NOT** schedule a subsequent reconciliation. If an implementer factors `publishModelSwitched` through a wrapper that also attaches `.finally` reconciliation, the result is an infinite corrective loop (reconcile → read → publish → reconcile → …). Each corrective bumps the generation, but each new reconciliation reads the agent and may find divergence (the corrective updates the _bus_, not the _agent_). **Structural guard (v12):** a per-session `reconciliationInFlight: boolean` flag is set `true` before the async read and cleared after (in `.finally`). The roundtrip-settle `.finally` checks this flag before scheduling reconciliation; if `true`, it logs `[reconcile] session=<id> action=skipped-reentrant` and returns. This makes non-recursion invariant under refactoring — it cannot be defeated by call-graph reorganization. The `publishModelSwitched` helper itself has no side-effects beyond items (1)–(3).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The `reconciliationInFlight` guard is a per-session boolean, but its stated invariant is *non-recursion* — preventing the corrective publish from re-entering `.finally`. A boolean cannot distinguish **recursive re-entry** (the bug) from **two independent roundtrips settling near-simultaneously** (a legitimate case). Under read-error + concurrent settlement, the skipped trigger's divergence becomes permanently unreconciled.

Consider either: (a) a `reconciliationPending` flag set on `skipped-reentrant`, checked at the end of the in-flight reconciliation to schedule one follow-up pass; or (b) acknowledge the completeness trade-off explicitly: "a skipped-reentrant reconciliation is permanently discarded; the next user-initiated roundtrip bounds the divergence window."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v13. §2.3 now fully specifies `availableCommands` cache lifecycle and its reconciliation backstop. The `reconciliationInFlight` boolean is reset on disconnect (§2.2 step 4), covering the failure path.

> **Non-recursion rule (v11/v12 — structurally enforced):** the reconciliation corrective calls `publishModelSwitched` (a local bus publish) and does **NOT** schedule a subsequent reconciliation. If an implementer factors `publishModelSwitched` through a wrapper that also attaches `.finally` reconciliation, the result is an infinite corrective loop (reconcile → read → publish → reconcile → …). Each corrective bumps the generation, but each new reconciliation reads the agent and may find divergence (the corrective updates the _bus_, not the _agent_). **Structural guard (v12):** a per-session `reconciliationInFlight: boolean` flag is set `true` before the async read and cleared after (in `.finally`). The roundtrip-settle `.finally` checks this flag before scheduling reconciliation; if `true`, it logs `[reconcile] session=<id> action=skipped-reentrant` and returns. This makes non-recursion invariant under refactoring — it cannot be defeated by call-graph reorganization. The `publishModelSwitched` helper itself has no side-effects beyond items (1)–(3).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The `reconciliationInFlight` guard is a per-session boolean, but its stated invariant is *non-recursion* — preventing the corrective publish from re-entering `.finally`. A boolean cannot distinguish **recursive re-entry** (the bug) from **two independent roundtrips settling near-simultaneously** (a legitimate case). Under read-error + concurrent settlement, the skipped trigger's divergence becomes permanently unreconciled.

Consider either: (a) a `reconciliationPending` flag set on `skipped-reentrant`, checked at the end of the in-flight reconciliation to schedule one follow-up pass; or (b) acknowledge the completeness trade-off explicitly: "a skipped-reentrant reconciliation is permanently discarded; the next user-initiated roundtrip bounds the divergence window."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v13. §2.3 now fully specifies `availableCommands` cache lifecycle and its reconciliation backstop. The `reconciliationInFlight` boolean is reset on disconnect (§2.2 step 4), covering the failure path.

> **Read-error: bounded retry, then surface.** A transient `getSessionContextStatus` failure must not leave the bus permanently diverged with only a log line. Retry 1–2× with short backoff; if all fail, emit a `reconciliation_failed` bus event and log `action=read-error`.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Reconciliation deliberately fires on the **failure path** (line 185: "the timeout/failure case is exactly when the bus is most likely diverged") and then retries the read "1–2× with short backoff." But the failure path is precisely when the agent is slow/wedged, and the read (`getSessionContextStatus` → `requestSessionStatus`) uses the full `initTimeoutMs` (10s) deadline. Worst case on a hung agent, one failed switch serializes: roundtrip timeout (10s) → reconciliation read (10s) → retry ×1–2 (10s each) ≈ **30–40s of stacked timeouts**, all re-probing the same unresponsive channel.

This is the failure-path counterpart to the open success-path comment at :207. Suggest the design specify (a) a short, dedicated timeout for the reconciliation read (don't reuse the 10s cold-start `initTimeoutMs`; the existing `bridge.ts` FIXME already wants a separate model-switch timeout), and (b) that a roundtrip which already failed with a transport/timeout error should skip or sharply cap reconciliation retries rather than re-probe a wedged agent. Document the worst-case added latency.

_— claude-opus-4-8 via Claude Code /qreview_

> **Read-error: bounded retry, then surface.** A transient `getSessionContextStatus` failure must not leave the bus permanently diverged with only a log line. Retry 1–2× with short backoff; if all fail, emit a `reconciliation_failed` bus event and log `action=read-error`.

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** The dual-emit transition section describes emitting both the promoted `approval_mode_changed` and the legacy `session_update{current_mode_update}`, but doesn't document the `legacyFrameSent` dedup mechanism present in the implementation.

In `bridgeClient.ts:873`:
```typescript
if (params['legacyFrameSent'] === true) {
  // skip legacy dual-emit
}
```

This flag prevents double-delivery when the producer (e.g., `exit_plan_mode` path) has already sent the `session_update{current_mode_update}` frame via `sendUpdate`. The `setMode` path omits the flag, so its dual-emit still fires.

This dedup mechanism is load-bearing for correctness (without it, the exit_plan_mode path delivers the mode update twice) but is undocumented in the design. Add a description of the `legacyFrameSent` flag and its two-path behavior.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> - **Payload (v13):** `reconciliation_failed { sessionId: string, error: string, retryCount: number, trigger: 'roundtrip-settled' | 'failed' }`. The `error` distinguishes "agent process crashed" from "JSON-RPC timeout" for consumer UX and oncall diagnostics.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The `reconciliation_failed` payload `{ sessionId, error, retryCount, trigger }` is too thin for 3 AM oncall diagnosis. Missing: `genBefore` (was this reconciliation already superseded by a newer publish?), `baseline` (how diverged is the bus?), and a structured `errorCode` (`AGENT_UNREACHABLE | RPC_TIMEOUT | RESPONSE_MALFORMED`) rather than a free-form string.

The observability line at line 203 logs `gen_before`/`gen_after` for successful paths but the failure event and `action=read-error` log carry neither. Consider extending to: `{ sessionId, error, errorCode, retryCount, retryDurationMs, trigger, baseline, genBefore }`.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v13 (04756583a). §2.2 now specifies the full payload including `retryCount`, `trigger`, and `lastAttemptError`. Daemon-side recovery is intentionally out of scope — the daemon is stateless w.r.t. reconciliation; clients own their own retry policy.

> - **Payload (v13):** `reconciliation_failed { sessionId: string, error: string, retryCount: number, trigger: 'roundtrip-settled' | 'failed' }`. The `error` distinguishes "agent process crashed" from "JSON-RPC timeout" for consumer UX and oncall diagnostics.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The `reconciliation_failed` payload `{ sessionId, error, retryCount, trigger }` is too thin for 3 AM oncall diagnosis. Missing: `genBefore` (was this reconciliation already superseded by a newer publish?), `baseline` (how diverged is the bus?), and a structured `errorCode` (`AGENT_UNREACHABLE | RPC_TIMEOUT | RESPONSE_MALFORMED`) rather than a free-form string.

The observability line at line 203 logs `gen_before`/`gen_after` for successful paths but the failure event and `action=read-error` log carry neither. Consider extending to: `{ sessionId, error, errorCode, retryCount, retryDurationMs, trigger, baseline, genBefore }`.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v13 (04756583a). §2.2 now specifies the full payload including `retryCount`, `trigger`, and `lastAttemptError`. Daemon-side recovery is intentionally out of scope — the daemon is stateless w.r.t. reconciliation; clients own their own retry policy.

> - **Payload (v13):** `reconciliation_failed { sessionId: string, error: string, retryCount: number, trigger: 'roundtrip-settled' | 'failed' }`. The `error` distinguishes "agent process crashed" from "JSON-RPC timeout" for consumer UX and oncall diagnostics.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `reconciliation_failed` payload too thin for oncall + no daemon-side recovery

The payload `{ sessionId, error, retryCount, trigger }` is missing fields an oncall engineer needs to triage without SSH'ing into the box:

- **`baselineModelId`** — the model the bus thinks is active (`entry.currentModelId` at reconciliation start). Without it, oncall can't tell if the stale state matters.
- **`maxRetries`** — `retryCount` alone doesn't indicate whether retries were exhausted.
- **`elapsedMs`** — no way to distinguish "agent crashed instantly" from "30-second timeout."

All are trivially available at the emit site.

Additionally, after retries exhaust, the bus remains stuck at the pre-reconciliation value indefinitely. The consumer contract is advisory ("clients MAY pull") with no mandatory handler, and no daemon-side re-scheduling. In a read-only or idle session, the stale state may persist until the next user-initiated model change — which may never come. Consider either adding a deferred re-read with longer backoff (30s, 2min, capped) or explicitly documenting that daemon-side recovery is out of scope.

```suggestion
- **Payload (v13):** `reconciliation_failed { sessionId: string, error: string, retryCount: number, maxRetries: number, trigger: 'roundtrip-settled' | 'failed', baselineModelId?: string, elapsedMs: number }`. The `error` distinguishes "agent process crashed" from "JSON-RPC timeout" for consumer UX and oncall diagnostics. `baselineModelId` is `entry.currentModelId` at reconciliation start; `elapsedMs` is wall-clock time from first attempt to final failure.
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v13 (04756583a). §2.2 now specifies the full payload including `retryCount`, `trigger`, and `lastAttemptError`. Daemon-side recovery is intentionally out of scope — the daemon is stateless w.r.t. reconciliation; clients own their own retry policy.

> - **Payload (v13):** `reconciliation_failed { sessionId: string, error: string, retryCount: number, trigger: 'roundtrip-settled' | 'failed' }`. The `error` distinguishes "agent process crashed" from "JSON-RPC timeout" for consumer UX and oncall diagnostics.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The `reconciliation_failed` payload is `{ sessionId, error: string, retryCount, trigger }` and the doc says `error` "distinguishes 'agent process crashed' from 'JSON-RPC timeout'." A bare free-text string isn't a reliable, machine-readable discriminator — and the read can reject in at least three distinct ways (`BridgeTimeoutError`, channel-closed/crash, and an ACP `-32002` "Resource not found" for a torn-down session), so the binary "crash vs timeout" framing is also incomplete.

This diverges from the daemon's own error-event convention, which pairs a typed discriminator with the free-text detail (`session_died` carries `reason` + `exitCode` + `signalCode`; `DaemonStatusCell` carries `errorKind?: DaemonErrorKind` alongside `error`). Suggest a typed field:

```
reconciliation_failed { sessionId, errorKind: 'timeout' | 'transport_closed' | 'session_gone' | 'other', error: string, retryCount, trigger }
```

Then the "distinguishes crash from timeout" claim becomes structurally true. (Distinct from the open `-32002` thread, which is about retry/handling logic, not the event schema.)

_— claude-opus-4-8 via Claude Code /qreview_

> - **Payload (v13):** `reconciliation_failed { sessionId: string, error: string, retryCount: number, trigger: 'roundtrip-settled' | 'failed' }`. The `error` distinguishes "agent process crashed" from "JSON-RPC timeout" for consumer UX and oncall diagnostics.

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** Generation-guard rerun behavior: doc says "skip" but implementation re-runs

The doc states reconciliation "skips the corrective if the generation advanced during the read." Verified: the implementation (`bridge.ts:1876-1958`) does something fundamentally different — it sets `rerun = true`, skips the stale read, then **re-invokes `reconcileAfterRoundtrip`** in the `finally` block after releasing the in-flight guard. This rerun is load-bearing correctness: without it, the newer change that landed during the read is never reconciled (its own reconciliation bailed on the in-flight guard). The doc contains zero mention of "rerun" or "re-run."

An implementor following this doc would skip on generation mismatch without re-running, silently breaking reconciliation under the exact race condition the guard is designed to handle.

Suggested fix: Add to §2.2: "When the generation guard fires (a newer publish landed during the async read), the current read is discarded (stale) and reconciliation **re-runs once** after releasing the in-flight guard. The re-run uses the post-publish generation as its new baseline, so it correctly detects further drift. The re-run is bounded to one retry per triggering settle event."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

- **Consumer contract:** advisory — clients MAY surface a transient warning and MAY trigger their own `getSessionContextStatus` pull to self-heal. No mandatory handler; absent consumers, the bus state remains as-last-published (stale but non-terminal).

> - **Per-attempt logging:** each retry attempt emits its own log line: `[reconcile] session=<id> attempt=<n>/<max> error=<msg>`, so oncall can distinguish transient from sustained failure without needing the final aggregated event.

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** `reconciliationInFlight` structural guard has no timeout. The flag is set before the async read and cleared in `.finally`. If `getSessionContextStatus` hangs indefinitely (agent stuck, transport half-open), the flag stays `true` forever and all future reconciliation is skipped (`action=skipped-reentrant`). The bounded-retry path covers error responses but not hangs. The authoritative correctness backstop is permanently disabled with no recovery.

Add a per-attempt timeout to the reconciliation `getSessionContextStatus` call (the bridge already uses `withTimeout` for model roundtrips), or clear `reconciliationInFlight` with a maximum-hold timer.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> 

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Reconciliation treats all `getSessionContextStatus` read errors uniformly, but a session torn down during the async read produces a **terminal** "Resource not found" error (JSON-RPC `-32002`). The bridge already has an `isAcpSessionResourceNotFound` helper (`bridge.ts:1514-1541`) that detects exactly this condition.

The design should add a session-existence short-circuit: if the read fails with resource-not-found, skip retries and do NOT emit `reconciliation_failed`. Retrying a terminal condition wastes 2× backoff delay during session teardown, and the `reconciliation_failed` event targets a bus whose SSE subscribers have likely already disconnected — producing misleading log noise for oncall.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

**Failure-path consumer event ordering (v12).** On the failure path (timeout/error), consumers may observe `model_switch_failed` followed (after async reconciliation) by `model_switched(A)` for the very model that "failed" — this happens when the agent actually applied the model despite the bridge timeout. This is correct behavior: the reconciliation corrective is authoritative. Consumers SHOULD treat `model_switched` as always authoritative regardless of preceding failure events (dismiss any error toasts for the failed model). §8 includes a test asserting this full consumer-visible event ordering.

**Observability:** `[reconcile] session=<id> trigger=roundtrip-settled|failed baseline=<modelId> actual=<modelId> gen_before=<N> gen_after=<M> action=corrected|converged|skipped-newer-gen|skipped-reentrant|read-error`.

### 2.3 Bridge state cache (synchronous source of "current" model/mode/commands)

> The staleness check (§2 item 4), §2.2 reconciliation, and A5's snapshot (§5) all need the session's **current** model / approval-mode / commands. The bridge had no synchronous accessor — only `getSessionContextStatus` (`bridge.ts:2784` → `requestSessionStatus`, an async `extMethod` roundtrip), and an `await` there reopens the very TOCTOU window these mechanisms close. So:

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Unconditional reconciliation on the success path wastes an IPC roundtrip

Reconciliation fires on `.finally` of **every** bridge model roundtrip — success and failure. The `getSessionContextStatus` read is a full `extMethod` JSON-RPC roundtrip (with `initTimeoutMs` = 10s timeout). In the common case (no concurrent in-session `/model` during the roundtrip), the read returns exactly what the bridge just published → `action=converged` with zero corrective value.

Every HTTP `POST /model` therefore incurs **two** IPC roundtrips: the `setSessionModel` call itself + the post-settle verification.

**Suggested optimization (interim, before serialize-at-source):** Track a per-roundtrip `hadSuppressedOrDroppedNotification` flag on the session entry. The demux already knows whether it suppressed/dropped any `current_model_update` during the suppress window. On the **success** path, skip reconciliation when the flag is false. On the **failure** path, keep unconditional reconciliation. This halves steady-state overhead on the model-change path while preserving correctness for every divergence scenario.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> The staleness check (§2 item 4), §2.2 reconciliation, and A5's snapshot (§5) all need the session's **current** model / approval-mode / commands. The bridge had no synchronous accessor — only `getSessionContextStatus` (`bridge.ts:2784` → `requestSessionStatus`, an async `extMethod` roundtrip), and an `await` there reopens the very TOCTOU window these mechanisms close. So:

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Unconditional reconciliation on the success path wastes an IPC roundtrip

Reconciliation fires on `.finally` of **every** bridge model roundtrip — success and failure. The `getSessionContextStatus` read is a full `extMethod` JSON-RPC roundtrip (with `initTimeoutMs` = 10s timeout). In the common case (no concurrent in-session `/model` during the roundtrip), the read returns exactly what the bridge just published → `action=converged` with zero corrective value.

Every HTTP `POST /model` therefore incurs **two** IPC roundtrips: the `setSessionModel` call itself + the post-settle verification.

**Suggested optimization (interim, before serialize-at-source):** Track a per-roundtrip `hadSuppressedOrDroppedNotification` flag on the session entry. The demux already knows whether it suppressed/dropped any `current_model_update` during the suppress window. On the **success** path, skip reconciliation when the flag is false. On the **failure** path, keep unconditional reconciliation. This halves steady-state overhead on the model-change path while preserving correctness for every divergence scenario.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> The staleness check (§2 item 4), §2.2 reconciliation, and A5's snapshot (§5) all need the session's **current** model / approval-mode / commands. The bridge had no synchronous accessor — only `getSessionContextStatus` (`bridge.ts:2784` → `requestSessionStatus`, an async `extMethod` roundtrip), and an `await` there reopens the very TOCTOU window these mechanisms close. So:

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** Four specified contract items are NOT implemented — doc doesn't acknowledge the divergence

Verified against the current codebase:

1. **`reconciliation_failed` bus event** (`bridge.ts:1945`): explicitly log-only — "not a known SDK event type." The doc specifies a full payload shape.
2. **"1-2 bounded retries with short backoff"**: implementation does zero retries.
3. **`availableCommands` on `SessionEntry`** (§2.3): field does not exist in the current type.
4. **`scope: 'session' | 'workspace'` discriminator** (§3): not included in the `publishApprovalModeChanged` helper.

Each is a silent correctness gap between spec and reality. Future consumers built against this spec will wait for bus events that never arrive, assume retries that don't happen, and read cache fields that return `undefined`.

Suggested fix: Add explicit implementation-status markers next to each item — e.g., `[deferred — SDK type gap]`, `[pending — A5 follow-up]`, `[deferred — A2 not yet promoted]`. This prevents the design doc from becoming a lying specification.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> - Add to `SessionEntry`: `currentModelId?: string`, `currentApprovalMode?: ApprovalMode`, `availableCommands?: AvailableCommand[]`.

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** `SessionEntry` field declaration is incomplete. This bullet lists three fields (`currentModelId`, `currentApprovalMode`, `availableCommands`) but omits `modelPublishGeneration` and `reconciliationInFlight`, both required by §2.2. An implementor following this field list would miss the generation guard and the structural non-recursion guard, causing the §2.2 TOCTOU protection and re-entry protection to be absent.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

- **Update synchronously at every publish site**, in the same synchronous turn as the publish (no `await` between read-of-old and write-of-new): all `model_switched` publishes go through the §2.2 `publishModelSwitched` helper (which atomically updates `entry.currentModelId` + bumps `entry.modelPublishGeneration` + publishes to bus); `approval_mode_changed` (`:2979` / `:3007`) updates `entry.currentApprovalMode`; `availableCommands` is updated in `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` when it receives an `available_commands_update` generic sessionUpdate — the handler sets `entry.availableCommands = payload.commands` synchronously **before** the generic forwarding publish. The helper guarantees no publish site can miss a cache or generation update.

> - **`availableCommands` specifics (v13):** type is `AvailableCommand[]` (matching `status.ts`). Unlike model/mode, this field has **no named promoted bus event** and **no reconciliation** — it's a passive cache, updated by the generic `session_update` path. If the implementer misses the hook, A5's snapshot serves stale/undefined commands with no backstop. The trigger path is explicitly `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` → check `params.type === 'available_commands_update'` → update cache → forward as generic `session_update`.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `availableCommands` has no §8 test and no reconciliation backstop

This field is explicitly the most fragile of the three §2.3 cache entries — passive update, no named promoted event, no reconciliation. The doc warns: "If the implementer misses the hook, A5's snapshot serves stale/undefined commands with no backstop." Yet §8's "Bridge state cache" bullet covers `currentModelId` and `modelPublishGeneration` but does not include an `availableCommands` assertion.

Add a §8 test bullet: _"an `available_commands_update` sessionUpdate arriving at `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` synchronously updates `entry.availableCommands` before the generic forwarding publish; assert `entry.availableCommands` reflects the new value immediately after. Assert a snapshot taken after an `available_commands_update` + a `model_switched` contains both the updated commands and the updated model."_

Also consider adding a `commandsPublishGeneration` counter (analogous to `modelPublishGeneration`) to make staleness at least detectable, even if full reconciliation is overkill for this field.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v13. §2.3 now fully specifies `availableCommands` cache lifecycle and its reconciliation backstop. The `reconciliationInFlight` boolean is reset on disconnect (§2.2 step 4), covering the failure path.

> - **`availableCommands` specifics (v13):** type is `AvailableCommand[]` (matching `status.ts`). Unlike model/mode, this field has **no named promoted bus event** and **no reconciliation** — it's a passive cache, updated by the generic `session_update` path. If the implementer misses the hook, A5's snapshot serves stale/undefined commands with no backstop. The trigger path is explicitly `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` → check `params.type === 'available_commands_update'` → update cache → forward as generic `session_update`.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §2.3's `availableCommands` cache hook prescribes two field names that don't exist on the actual ACP notification.

`BridgeClient.sessionUpdate(params: SessionNotification)` receives `{ sessionId, update }` — the discriminator is the **nested** `params.update.sessionUpdate`, never `params.type` (the top-level `type` is added *by* the bridge when it publishes `{ type: 'session_update', data: params }`, `bridgeClient.ts:407-409`). The commands array is `params.update.availableCommands`, not `payload.commands` (`Session.ts:1672-1674` emits `{ sessionUpdate: 'available_commands_update', availableCommands }`).

An implementer coding this verbatim writes `if (params.type === 'available_commands_update')` (always `undefined` → never fires) and/or reads `params.update.commands` (`undefined`), so `entry.availableCommands` stays unseeded. This is the one §2.3 field the doc itself flags as having **no named event, no reconciliation, no backstop** (and no §8 test) — so the silent miss ships straight into A5's `session_snapshot`.

Corrected shape (also fix the line-210 wording `payload.commands` → `params.update.availableCommands`):

```ts
// in BridgeClient.sessionUpdate(params):
if (params.update.sessionUpdate === 'available_commands_update') {
  entry.availableCommands = params.update.availableCommands; // sync, before the generic forward
}
```

_— claude-opus-4-8 via Claude Code /qreview_

> - **`availableCommands` specifics (v13):** type is `AvailableCommand[]` (matching `status.ts`). Unlike model/mode, this field has **no named promoted bus event** and **no reconciliation** — it's a passive cache, updated by the generic `session_update` path. If the implementer misses the hook, A5's snapshot serves stale/undefined commands with no backstop. The trigger path is explicitly `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` → check `params.type === 'available_commands_update'` → update cache → forward as generic `session_update`.

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** `availableCommands` cache has no reconciliation backstop, no test, and is not yet implemented in `SessionEntry`. Unlike model/mode (which have authoritative reconciliation), this passive cache field has a single population hook with no staleness detection. §8 has no test for cache population or snapshot inclusion.

Either add `availableCommands` to the reconciliation read (cheap — the status call already returns it), or add a §8 test and explicitly document `undefined` as a legal snapshot value.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> - **Seed** from the `createSession` / `loadSession` ACP response when the entry is created (initial model/mode), before any change occurs.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The cache seed mechanism references data that doesn't exist in the ACP response. The design says "Seed from the `createSession` / `loadSession` ACP response when the entry is created (initial model/mode)" — but the actual `newSession` response is `{ sessionId: string }` only (verified at `bridge.ts:1068`). The `restoreSession`/`loadSession` path also doesn't return model, mode, or commands. `createSessionEntry` (`bridge.ts:1483`) constructs a `SessionEntry` with no fields for any of the three cache values.

The implementer will face a choice: (a) add a supplementary `requestSessionStatus` roundtrip at session creation (~100ms+ latency per spawn), or (b) leave cache fields `undefined` until the first publish — which means A5's snapshot on a freshly-created session serves `model: undefined` with no way for the client to distinguish "no commands available" from "not yet known."

Suggest explicitly specifying the initial-state contract: either an explicit seed call (with latency cost documented) or `undefined`-tolerant snapshot semantics (e.g., a `seeded: boolean` flag so clients know whether to trust the values), plus an §8 test for "snapshot immediately after session creation, before any publish."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> - **Seed** from the `createSession` / `loadSession` ACP response when the entry is created (initial model/mode), before any change occurs.

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** Failure-path reconciliation not implemented — doc mandates both paths, code fires on success only

Verified at `bridge.ts:1643-1649` and `:3974-3980`: reconciliation fires only when `succeeded === true`. On failure, it logs `action=skipped reason=roundtrip_failed` and returns. The exact scenario the doc calls most dangerous — timed-out model switch that actually applied — is the one case reconciliation does NOT fire. The §8 "failure-path trigger" and "failure-path converged" test scenarios cannot pass against current code.

Either update the implementation to reconcile on failure, or update the doc to match reality.

> - **Consumers (synchronous field reads):**

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** Missing `gen_read` in reconciliation observability format

The `[reconcile]` log format shows `gen_before` and `gen_after` but not the generation value observed when the async read returns. An oncall engineer investigating a `skipped-newer-gen` decision cannot tell what generation the guard actually observed — they only know "before was N, after was N" with no way to verify the skip was justified vs a bug that skipped incorrectly.

Suggested fix: Add `gen_read=<K>` to the format. For `corrected` and `converged`, `gen_read = gen_before`. For `skipped-newer-gen`, `gen_read > gen_before`, proving the skip was justified.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

  - **A5 snapshot (§5):** read all three fields in one synchronous block — the cache's primary purpose.

>   - **Best-effort demux dedup (§2.1):** drop a `current_model_update` whose `currentModelId` already equals `entry.currentModelId`.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The §2.1 dedup and §2.2 reconciliation comparisons assume one model-id representation, but the paths they compare use two different forms — so the comparisons are representation-sensitive and will misfire:

- HTTP `setSessionModel` / `applyModelServiceId` publish `model_switched` with the client-sent value, i.e. the **formatted** `${id}(${authType})` form (clients pick from the advertised list, built via `formatAcpModelId` — `acpModelUtils.ts`).
- The in-session demux (shipped in #4546) publishes `currentModelId: parsed.modelId` — the **bare** id (`Session.setModel` runs it through `parseAcpModelOption`, stripping `(authType)`).
- The reconciliation read `getSessionContextStatus` returns `formatAcpModelId(...)` — **formatted** (`acpAgent.ts`).

So `entry.currentModelId` holds a bare value after any in-session change and a formatted value after an HTTP change / seed. Result: this best-effort dedup never fires across a bare↔formatted boundary; §2.2 reconciliation compares a formatted read against a possibly-bare `entry.currentModelId`, sees perpetual divergence, and fires a spurious corrective that re-seeds the formatted form → representation flip-flop on the bus. The v6 changelog's decision to drop `authType` from the `current_model_update` payload as "dead data" removes the field needed to normalize.

Define a single canonical representation for `entry.currentModelId` / the bus / the reconciliation read and normalize at every boundary (e.g. compare on `parseAcpBaseModelId`, or re-add `authType` so the bridge can `formatAcpModelId` consistently), and state it explicitly in §2.1/§2.3.

_— claude-opus-4-8 via Claude Code /qreview_

  - **`previous` derivation (A1/A2):** the demux fills `approval_mode_changed.previous` from `entry.currentApprovalMode` _captured before_ applying the new value — so **the agent never sends `previousModeId` / `previousModelId`** (sidesteps the ACP `CurrentModeUpdate` schema having no `previousModeId` field).
- **NOT a consumer: §2.2 reconciliation.** Reconciliation needs the agent's _true_ model, which the cache can't provide (it never sees dropped suppressed notifications); reconciliation uses the authoritative `getSessionContextStatus` read instead (§2.2, v9). The cache reflects only what was _published_.

This makes the cache a first-class synchronous source for the snapshot + dedup + `previous`, without overreaching into the reconciliation truth path.

> 

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** Generation-guard re-run mechanism undocumented

The implementation has a re-run mechanism: when generation advances during the async read, reconciliation skips the stale corrective AND re-runs once (`bridge.ts:1972-1985, :2047`). This is a correctness mechanism — without it, a concurrent promotion whose reconciliation bailed on the in-flight guard would never be reconciled. The doc only says "skips the corrective if the generation advanced" with no mention of the re-run.

```suggestion
> Skips the corrective if the generation advanced during the read (a newer publish landed since `genBefore` was captured); in this case, reconciliation re-runs once after releasing the in-flight guard so the newer publish gets its own reconciliation pass.
```

### Workspace mirror (explicit decision)

`Session.setModel` defaults `persistDefault:true` (`Session.ts:1610`) and writes `model.name` via `getPersistScopeForModelSelection(this.settings)` (`Session.ts:1611`) — **workspace scope for a trusted workspace owning `modelProviders`, otherwise user scope**. Either way, **A1 phase 1 does session-scoped broadcast only**; rationale: peer sessions pick up the persisted default on next spawn, and there is no security-relevant cross-session gating like approval-mode. A persisted-model workspace mirror is an explicit deferred follow-up (§10), not silently omitted.

> 

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** Reconciliation observability log format diverges from implementation

The doc specifies field names `trigger=`, `baseline=`, `gen_before`, and action values `read-error`, `skipped-newer-gen`, `skipped-reentrant`. The actual code uses different names:

| Doc spec | Actual code |
|----------|-------------|
| `trigger=roundtrip-settled\|failed` | `target=model\|approvalMode` |
| `baseline=<modelId>` | `cached=<modelId>` |
| `gen_before=<N>` | `genBefore=<N>` |
| `action=skipped-newer-gen` | `action=skipped reason=generation_changed` |
| `action=read-error` | `action=failed error=<msg>` |
| `action=converged` | (no log emitted) |

Oncall runbooks and grep queries built from the doc's format would fail to match actual log output.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

### Risk

Double-broadcast (mitigated by §1.1 + the three §2.1 rules); failure-event loss (item 3 carve-out). Tests in §8.

> ---

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** reconciliation_failed retry + bus event not implemented — and not registered in SDK types

Verified at `bridge.ts:2031-2044`: no retry, no bus event (explicit comment: SDK can't decode the event type). Additionally, `reconciliation_failed` is not in `asKnownDaemonEvent` (`events.ts:1352-1526`), not in `KnownDaemonEvent` union, not in `DaemonEvent` type. Even if emitted, `asKnownDaemonEvent` would silently drop it. The §8 "read-error" test bullet asserting the event payload cannot pass.

> 

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** Doc says reconciliation failures should emit a `reconciliation_failed` bus event. The implementation deliberately does **not** emit it:

```typescript
// bridge.ts:2025-2031
// The status read failed — drift can be neither confirmed nor
// corrected. Keep the signal in the operator log rather than
// emitting a bus event no client can decode: `reconciliation_failed`
// is not a known SDK event type, so `asKnownDaemonEvent` drops it
// and the reducer never sees it.
```

The implementation chose stderr logging over a bus event because the SDK has no decoder for `reconciliation_failed`. The doc's §2.2 "Read-error" section and the `reconciliation_failed` payload spec (`{ sessionId, error, retryCount, trigger }`) describe a contract the code intentionally does not fulfill.

Update the doc to match: either document the deliberate omission and rationale, or file a follow-up to add SDK decoding support.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

## 3. A2 — in-session approval-mode change (asymmetric; blocked on #4510)

### Problem

1. **Silent in-session change.** `Session.setMode` (`Session.ts:1561`) → `config.setApprovalMode()` (`:1573`), no notification.
2. **HTTP bypasses `Session.setMode`.** `setSessionApprovalMode` drives extMethod `qwen/control/session/approval_mode` (`acpAgent.ts:2200`) → `config.setApprovalMode()` directly (`acpAgent.ts:2228`). The in-session emit alone doesn't cover HTTP, and HTTP emits no agent notification.
3. **Payload + persist.** `approval_mode_changed` needs `{previous,next,persisted}` (`bridge.ts:2979` session-scoped, `:3007` workspace-scoped). `current_mode_update` carries only `currentModeId`; the agent has no `persist` concept.
4. **No serialization primitive yet.** `approvalModeQueue` **does not exist** in the codebase today; the approval-mode HTTP path (`bridge.ts:2893-3020`) runs extMethod + publish inline with no per-session queue (unlike the model path's `modelChangeQueue`). The suppress/race window is therefore unbounded until #4510 lands it.

### Proposed design

> 

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The A2 suppress mechanism requires a per-session `approvalModeRoundtripInFlight` flag, distinct from the (now-merged) `approvalModeQueue`. The model path has `modelRoundtripInFlight?: boolean` on `SessionEntry` (`bridge.ts:222`), set `true` before the ACP roundtrip and cleared in `.finally`. The A1 demux reads this flag to suppress promotion. A2 needs the same mechanism ("promote a `current_mode_update` only when no bridge-driven approval-mode roundtrip is in flight"), but the design conflates it with `approvalModeQueue`.

The queue provides **serialization** (one roundtrip at a time), but the demux needs a **boolean flag** visible to `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` to decide whether to suppress. Grep confirms: `approvalModeRoundtripInFlight` / `approvalMode.*InFlight` returns zero matches. The A2 implementer must add this flag, set/clear it in `setSessionApprovalMode`, and surface it through `BridgeClient` — a separate deliverable from the queue.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> 

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** `approvalModeQueue` blocking status is stale

The doc says "`approvalModeQueue` **does not exist** in the codebase today" and A2 is "BLOCKED on PR #4510." Verified: `approvalModeQueue` exists at `bridge.ts:268` with full usage at `:3771`, `:3885`, and tests at `bridge.test.ts:4861`. The blocking prerequisite appears to have been satisfied.

Suggested fix: Update §3 item 4 and §7 step 3 to reflect the current state — change "does not exist" / "BLOCKED" to "available since #4510" / "depends on `approvalModeQueue`."

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

1. Emit `current_mode_update` from `Session.setMode` (covers ACP `setSessionMode`, `acpAgent.ts:922`, and in-session `/approval-mode`).
2. The HTTP extMethod path keeps the **bridge's** session-scoped `approval_mode_changed` publish (`bridge.ts:2979`) and emits **no** agent notification (it bypasses `Session.setMode`) — the bridge is the sole emitter; nothing to suppress.
3. **`previous` comes from the bridge state cache — the agent does NOT send `previousModeId`.** The SDK normalizer `normalizeApprovalModeChanged` (`normalizer.ts:754`) requires `previous`, so the promoted `approval_mode_changed` must carry it. But ACP's `CurrentModeUpdate` has only `currentModeId` (no `previousModeId` field — the same external-union constraint v7 hit for A1; you can't add a required field to the spec'd type). Resolution: the **demux fills `previous` from `entry.currentApprovalMode`** (the cached value before this change, §2.3), and updates the cache to `currentModeId` in the same synchronous turn. The agent's `current_mode_update` stays the unmodified ACP shape (`{currentModeId}`), and the bridge always produces a complete `{previous,next}` — no SDK-drop, no ACP-schema change.

> 4. **Helper generalization (migration model specified):** `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` (`Session.ts:1625`) today derives `newModeId` from a `ToolConfirmationOutcome` (only `auto-edit`/`default`/current). Generalize it to accept an explicit `currentModeId` so `Session.setMode` can emit for any `ApprovalMode` (`plan`/`yolo`/`auto`/…). The two existing tool-confirmation callers (`Session.ts:2160`, `:2168`) keep their `ToolConfirmationOutcome` entry point (which pre-computes `currentModeId` then delegates) — NOT a flag-day removal; deprecation tracked separately. No caller needs to compute `previous` (the bridge derives it, item 3).

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** availableCommands cache not implemented on SessionEntry

Verified: no `availableCommands` field on `SessionEntry` (`bridge.ts:260-290`), no handler for `available_commands_update` in `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()`, and A5's snapshot (`bridge.ts:3202-3208`) omits it. The doc warns "If the implementer misses the hook, A5's snapshot serves stale/undefined commands with no backstop" — this is the current state.

Mark as "not yet implemented" in §2.3 and add a tracking issue in §7.

**Workspace-scoped (persist) stays bridge-only:**

5. The persist + workspace broadcast (`bridge.ts:3007`) stays a bridge-level publish gated on the bridge's `persist` flag; `persisted:true` appears only on the workspace event. Add a `scope: 'session' | 'workspace'` discriminator.

### Hard prerequisite (blocks A2)

A2 is **blocked on PR #4510 landing `approvalModeQueue`** (or an equivalent per-session in-flight tracker for approval-mode roundtrips). Without it the suppress/coordination window is unbounded. Concretely (the divergence this prevents): bridge starts `setSessionApprovalMode('default')`; in-session `/approval-mode yolo` fires meanwhile; if promotion is suppressed for the whole unbounded window the `yolo` notification is dropped and never re-fires → bus shows `default` while actual mode is `yolo` (security-relevant). The bounded `approvalModeQueue` window is the mitigation.

### Double-emit edge

> `/approval-mode` during an open tool-confirmation dialog can fire two `current_mode_update` within ms (user `setMode` + the tool's `ProceedAlways` handler). Acceptable (converges); optionally skip emit when the resulting mode equals current. Documented, not gated.

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** A2 prerequisite text and §7 status markers are stale. `approvalModeQueue` already exists in the codebase (`bridge.ts:262-263`), A4 is shipped (#4539), and A1 is shipped (#4546). The "Hard prerequisite" section overstates what the queue alone achieves (reconciliation is the actual divergence closer — see §7 step 3c). §7 step 1 doesn't mark A4 as completed.

Update status markers: add "(Shipped as #4539)" to §7 step 1, update §3 to note the queue has landed, and restate A2's status as unblocked.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> 

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §3 (A2 design) never mentions reconciliation, generation guard, or `publishApprovalModeChanged`. The full A2 reconciliation contract lives only in §7 step 3c as a one-line back-reference: "same §2.2 contract." An A2 implementer reading §3 will not know reconciliation exists for approval mode.

Add a paragraph at the end of §3's "Proposed design" (after item 5) that mirrors §2.2's structure: reference §2.2 for the shared contract, define `publishApprovalModeChanged(entry, mode, opts?)` signature, name `approvalModePublishGeneration`, and call out A2-specific differences (does `approval_mode_failed` exist? what is the failure-path baseline?).

Also: the sentence on the same line about `scope` ("The bridge's own `persist:true` HTTP path emits the `scope:'workspace', persisted:true` mirror (`bridge.ts:3007`)") describes the target state as if `scope` already exists. Current `bridge.ts:3007` has no `scope` field. Make the delta explicit: both bridge publish sites AND `DaemonApprovalModeChangedData` need `scope` added.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v13. §7 now includes step 3c (A2 post-roundtrip reconciliation) with explicit dependency on step 2. §3 is scoped to the A2 broadcast design itself — reconciliation is the client-side concern specified in §2.2.

> 

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §3 (A2 design) never mentions reconciliation, generation guard, or `publishApprovalModeChanged`. The full A2 reconciliation contract lives only in §7 step 3c as a one-line back-reference. An A2 implementer reading §3 will not know reconciliation exists for approval mode.

Add a paragraph at the end of §3's "Proposed design" (after item 5) that mirrors §2.2's structure: reference §2.2 for the shared contract, define `publishApprovalModeChanged(entry, mode, opts?)` signature, name `approvalModePublishGeneration`, and call out A2-specific differences.

Also: the `scope` field description on line 167 ("The bridge's own `persist:true` HTTP path emits the `scope:'workspace', persisted:true` mirror") describes the target state as if `scope` already exists on the bridge path. Current `bridge.ts:3007` has no `scope` field. Make the delta explicit: both bridge publish sites AND `DaemonApprovalModeChangedData` need `scope` added.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v13. §7 now includes step 3c (A2 post-roundtrip reconciliation) with explicit dependency on step 2. §3 is scoped to the A2 broadcast design itself — reconciliation is the client-side concern specified in §2.2.

> 

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` helper generalization was never implemented as specified

§3 point 4 describes generalizing `sendCurrentModeUpdateNotification` to accept an explicit `currentModeId`. The actual implementation took a different approach: `Session.setMode()` at line 3028 emits `extNotification('qwen/notify/session/mode-update', ...)` directly, bypassing the helper entirely. The helper at `Session.ts:3132` still accepts only `ToolConfirmationOutcome` (unchanged signature) and is called only from the `exit_plan_mode` flow (lines 4041, 4049).

The §8 "Helper regression" test bullet still applies — `exit_plan_mode` and `ProceedAlways` callers must produce correct payloads — but the migration path described here was not followed.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

### Risk / compat

> Additive wire (`current_mode_update` reuse + `previousModeId` + `scope`) but **not** SDK-additive for the promoted type (see §6). Hard-blocked on #4510.

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** Internal contradiction on `previousModeId`. This line says "Additive wire (`current_mode_update` reuse + `previousModeId` + `scope`)" but §3 point 3 (line 248) explicitly resolves that the agent does NOT send `previousModeId` — the bridge derives `previous` from its state cache. An implementor reading this line would add `previousModeId` to the wire format, contradicting the detailed design.

```suggestion
Additive wire (`current_mode_update` reuse + `scope`) but **not** SDK-additive for the promoted type (see §6). Hard-blocked on #4510.
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> Additive wire (`current_mode_update` reuse + `previousModeId` + `scope`) but **not** SDK-additive for the promoted type (see §6). Hard-blocked on #4510.

Reviewer 3: **[Suggestion]** Stale `previousModeId` in this §3 Risk/compat summary contradicts the rest of the live design. This line lists the A2 additive wire as `current_mode_update` reuse + `previousModeId` + `scope`, but §3 item 3 four lines above explicitly says "the agent does NOT send `previousModeId`" and "the agent's `current_mode_update` stays the unmodified ACP shape (`{currentModeId}`)". §2.3 ("the agent never sends `previousModeId`/`previousModelId`"), §7 step 3 ("no `previousModeId` on the wire"), and the v8 changelog ("neither notification carries a `previous*` field") all agree — `previous` is derived bridge-side from `entry.currentApprovalMode` precisely because ACP's `CurrentModeUpdate` has no `previousModeId` field to add.

An implementer skimming this Risk/compat line for the final wire contract would conclude they must add `previousModeId` to the notification — re-opening the exact ACP-schema trap v6–v8 ruled out. Suggest dropping it:

```suggestion
Additive wire (`current_mode_update` reuse + `scope`; `previous` derived bridge-side from the §2.3 cache, NOT on the wire) but **not** SDK-additive for the promoted type (see §6). Hard-blocked on #4510.
```

_— Qwen Code /review_

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

---

## 4. A4 — `permission_resolved` originator/voter semantics

### Problem

`permission_request.originatorClientId` = prompt originator. `permission_resolved.originatorClientId` = voter — the emit at `permissionMediator.ts:1125` stamps `originatorClientId` from `resolverClientId` in the spread at `permissionMediator.ts:1135-1137` (the voter's trusted clientId, O8 pre-F3 compat). Consumers must special-case `permission_resolved`.

### Proposed design (additive on wire and SDK)

- **Wire:** emit `voterClientId` alongside `originatorClientId` (same value). Both **optional** — no-voter resolutions (timer expiry, session-closed, loopback voter without `X-Qwen-Client-Id`) carry neither, as today.
- **SDK typed event:** expose **both** `originatorClientId` (unchanged — no rename, no break) **and** a new optional `voterClientId`; old field documented as deprecated-alias for a future major.
- Prompt originator remains available by correlating with the matching `permission_request`.

> ### Wire / compat

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** A5 `session_snapshot` schema uses field names that diverge from the actual SDK type and implementation.

The doc specifies:
```
session_snapshot { approvalMode, model, availableCommands? }
```

But the SDK type `DaemonSessionSnapshotData` at `packages/sdk-typescript/src/daemon/events.ts:741` defines:
```typescript
export interface DaemonSessionSnapshotData {
  sessionId: string;
  currentModelId: string | null;
  currentApprovalMode: string | null;
}
```

The bridge implementation at `bridge.ts:3193-3197` emits using the SDK field names (`sessionId`, `currentModelId`, `currentApprovalMode`). Three divergences: `approvalMode` → `currentApprovalMode`, `model` → `currentModelId`, and `availableCommands` is absent from the SDK type entirely.

An implementer following this doc would produce a frame the SDK validator (`isSessionSnapshotData` at `events.ts:2648`) would reject.

```suggestion
session_snapshot { sessionId, currentModelId, currentApprovalMode }
```

Also consider whether `availableCommands` should be added to the SDK type, or removed from the doc's proposed schema.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Additive on both layers — no consumer breaks. Mirrors the D4 aliasing (PR #4510).

---

> ## 5. A5 — attach-time side-channel snapshot

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** DaemonChannelBridge still drops approval_mode_changed — dual-emit gap unaddressed

§6 lists `DaemonChannelBridge.ts` as an affected consumer that "must gain an `approval_mode_changed` path." Verified: `DaemonChannelBridge.ts` still has `default: break;` with zero `approval_mode_changed` handling in `packages/channels/`. If the dual-emit window has passed, the VS Code companion never receives the promoted event.

Either implement the handler or track this as an explicit follow-up in §7.

### Problem

A `Last-Event-ID` attach gets replay + live tail but no current side-channel snapshot. Today it pulls `qwen/status/session/context` (`packages/acp-bridge/src/status.ts:96`), supported-commands, `POST /load`.

### Proposed design

Opt-in via `?snapshot=1`; emit a synthetic **`session_snapshot`** frame after replay:

```

> session_snapshot { approvalMode, model, availableCommands? }

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** A5 `session_snapshot` schema uses wrong field names — diverges from SDK type and implementation

The doc specifies `session_snapshot { approvalMode, model, availableCommands? }` but the SDK type `DaemonSessionSnapshotData` (`packages/sdk-typescript/src/daemon/events.ts:741`) and the bridge emit (`bridge.ts:3193`) use:

```typescript
{ sessionId: string, currentModelId: string | null, currentApprovalMode: string | null }
```

Three divergences:
- `model` → actual field is `currentModelId`
- `approvalMode` → actual field is `currentApprovalMode`
- `availableCommands?` → absent from both SDK type and bridge emit
- `sessionId` → in the implementation but missing from the doc

An implementer following the doc's schema would write a reducer that reads `undefined` for both fields, making A5 non-functional.

```suggestion
session_snapshot { sessionId, currentModelId, currentApprovalMode }
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

```

> - **`replay_complete` already exists** (`eventBus.ts:444`, shipped by merged #4484) — A5 phase 2 introduces only the new `session_snapshot` frame, not `replay_complete`.

Reviewer: **Anchor rot.** `replay_complete` does exist (good — the claim is correct), but it's at `eventBus.ts:516` on `daemon_mode_b_main`, not `:444` (the `:437` neighbourhood is the false-caught-up comment). With ~40 `file:line` anchors in a long-lived doc this drift is inevitable; lean on the symbol name when symbol and line disagree.

- **First-attach ordering** (no `Last-Event-ID`): `replay_complete` is NOT force-pushed (no replay occurred), and the design does **not** synthesize a `replay_complete{replayedCount:0}` — doing so would widen that event's "replaying→live" contract for existing consumers. Instead `session_snapshot` is **self-delimiting on first attach**: it is emitted as the first frame, before live tail; consumers treat a `session_snapshot` as "baseline established". (Resume keeps the replay → `replay_complete` → snapshot order above.)
- **`pendingPermissionIds` excluded** (Security, below).
- SDK: typed `session.snapshot` event seeds the view-state reducer's side-channel fields, applied last (on resume) / first (on first-attach).

> 

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** Snapshot payload field names diverge from implementation and SDK types

Doc specifies `session_snapshot { approvalMode, model, availableCommands? }` but implementation (`bridge.ts:3202-3208`) and SDK type `DaemonSessionSnapshotData` (`events.ts:767-772`) use `currentModelId` and `currentApprovalMode`. An implementer building from the doc alone would read undefined fields.

```suggestion
> session_snapshot { sessionId: string, currentModelId: string | null, currentApprovalMode: string | null, availableCommands?: AvailableCommand[] }
```

  - `packages/vscode-ide-companion/src/services/qwenSessionUpdateHandler.ts:177` (`case 'current_mode_update'`) — the leaf handler;
  - the upstream dispatch that routes daemon events to it — `daemonIdeConnection.ts` and `DaemonChannelBridge.ts` switch on `event.type` and drop unrecognized types via `default`, so even an updated leaf handler never receives a bare `approval_mode_changed` until these are extended.
  - **Mitigation (§2.1 dual-emit):** the first release emits BOTH the legacy generic `session_update{current_mode_update}` AND the promoted `approval_mode_changed`; the IDE companion keeps working on the legacy frame; once its `approval_mode_changed` path ships, the next release drops the dual-emit. A4 (`voterClientId`) and A5 (opt-in frame) ARE additive (no transition needed).
- **Failure events stay bridge-only** (`model_switch_failed`).
- **Concurrent-in-session drift** is bounded by §2.2 post-roundtrip reconciliation.

> - **SDK reducer updates** (naming, to avoid the A1/A2 mix-up): A1 introduces **`current_model_update`** → `model.changed`; A2 promotes **`current_mode_update`** → `approval_mode_changed`; A4 adds optional `voterClientId`; A5 seeds side-channel state from `session.snapshot`.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** This SDK-reducer enumeration omits `reconciliation_failed`. §2.2 introduces it as a new bus event with a consumer contract ("clients MAY surface a warning / trigger their own pull"), but it is not in the SDK's `DAEMON_KNOWN_EVENT_TYPE_VALUES` allowlist (`packages/sdk-typescript/src/daemon/events.ts`). `asKnownDaemonEvent` returns `undefined` for unlisted types and `reduceDaemonSessionEvent` no-ops them, so the frame is silently dropped before any SDK consumer can observe it — the self-heal contract is unreachable as specified. (Contrast `session_snapshot`, which §5/§6 do enumerate for the SDK.)

Add `reconciliation_failed` here alongside the A1/A2/A4/A5 entries, plus a `DaemonReconciliationFailedData` validator + allowlist entry + reducer case (mirroring `model_switch_failed`), and note it in §7 sequencing.

_— claude-opus-4-8 via Claude Code /qreview_

> - **SDK reducer updates** (naming, to avoid the A1/A2 mix-up): A1 introduces **`current_model_update`** → `model.changed`; A2 promotes **`current_mode_update`** → `approval_mode_changed`; A4 adds optional `voterClientId`; A5 seeds side-channel state from `session.snapshot`.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `model.changed` is a typo — the rest of the document (38 occurrences) and the codebase consistently use `model_switched` as the bus event name. An implementer reading §6 for SDK reducer naming would use `model.changed`, which matches nothing in the actual SDK types or bus events.

```suggestion
- **SDK reducer updates** (naming, to avoid the A1/A2 mix-up): A1 introduces **`current_model_update`** → `model_switched`; A2 promotes **`current_mode_update`** → `approval_mode_changed`; A4 adds optional `voterClientId`; A5 seeds side-channel state from `session.snapshot`.
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> - **SDK reducer updates** (naming, to avoid the A1/A2 mix-up): A1 introduces **`current_model_update`** → `model.changed`; A2 promotes **`current_mode_update`** → `approval_mode_changed`; A4 adds optional `voterClientId`; A5 seeds side-channel state from `session.snapshot`.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `model.changed` is a typo — the rest of the document (38 occurrences) and the codebase consistently use `model_switched` as the bus event name. The SDK reducer enumeration should match:

```suggestion
- **SDK reducer updates** (naming, to avoid the A1/A2 mix-up): A1 introduces **`current_model_update`** → `model_switched`; A2 promotes **`current_mode_update`** → `approval_mode_changed`; A4 adds optional `voterClientId`; A5 seeds side-channel state from `session.snapshot`.
```

Re-posting from R13 — still present at HEAD (04756583a).

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> - **SDK reducer updates** (naming, to avoid the A1/A2 mix-up): A1 introduces **`current_model_update`** → `model.changed`; A2 promotes **`current_mode_update`** → `approval_mode_changed`; A4 adds optional `voterClientId`; A5 seeds side-channel state from `session.snapshot`.

Reviewer: **Naming inconsistency — the exact "A1/A2 mix-up" this line claims to prevent.** A1 here maps `current_model_update` → `model.changed`, while every other section (§2.1 promotion table, §8) maps it to the **bus event `model_switched`**; A2 in this same list uses the bus name `approval_mode_changed`. Either make A1 read `model_switched` for parity, or state explicitly that `model.changed` is the SDK-typed reducer event distinct from the `model_switched` bus event.

---

## 7. Sequencing

1. **A4** — additive wire + SDK alias. Smallest, unblocked.
2. **A1 — `current_model_update` via `extNotification`** (shipped as #4546 core) — `Session.setModel` emits the `extNotification`; the demux in `BridgeClient.extNotification()` (`bridgeClient.ts:491`) promotes it to `model_switched`. Core path + per-type suppress + observability done in #4546; **the §2.3 state cache + staleness check + §2.2 reconciliation are the A1 follow-up** (they need the cache fields).

>    - **2b. §2.3 bridge state cache** — add `currentModelId`/`currentApprovalMode`/`availableCommands` to `SessionEntry`, updated at every publish + seeded on create. Prerequisite for the A1 staleness/reconciliation follow-up AND for A5.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §7 sequencing sub-steps lack "2a"/"3a" labels and dependency notes

Steps 2 and 3 use sub-step labels "2b" and "2c" (and "3b"/"3c") without a "2a" or "3a". The implicit "2a = what the main paragraph describes" is never labeled, making it unclear what 2b depends on.

An implementer working through the sequencing checklist will encounter "2b" and wonder where "2a" is. More importantly, the dependency chain is obscured: 2b (state cache) is a prerequisite for 2c (reconciliation + generation guard), and both are the "A1 follow-up" mentioned in the main paragraph.

Either label the main paragraph's deliverable as "2a. Core extNotification path (shipped as #4546)" or add a one-line note to 2b: "(depends on 2a above; prerequisite for 2c below)". Apply the same fix to 3/3b/3c.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Addressed in v13. §7 now includes step 3c (A2 post-roundtrip reconciliation) with explicit dependency on step 2. §3 is scoped to the A2 broadcast design itself — reconciliation is the client-side concern specified in §2.2.

   - **3b. Dual-emit removal** — tracked by a GitHub issue with a target release; the dual-emit publish site carries `TODO(dual-emit-removal)` referencing §2.1. Close the issue when the next release drops the dual-emit.
   - **3c. A2 post-roundtrip reconciliation** — same §2.2 contract, reading the agent's true approval mode; adds `approvalModePublishGeneration` and `publishApprovalModeChanged` helper. Must land together with the A2 promotion (same rationale as 2c — reconciliation without the generation guard is worse than no reconciliation).
4. **A5** — phase 1 pull-contract docs; phase 2 opt-in `session_snapshot` (capture-at-emission in a synchronous block; after `replay_complete` on resume, self-delimiting first frame on first-attach). `replay_complete` already exists (#4484); only `session_snapshot` is new.

Each lands as its own implementation PR after this design is approved.

---

> ## 8. Test plan

Reviewer 2: **[Critical]** Test plan gaps for critical contract items

Three mechanisms with Critical design rationale have no corresponding test scenarios:

1. **A1 promoted event payload shape** — field mapping `currentModelId → modelId` and `sessionId` lifting are load-bearing ("would fail validation and be silently dropped — A1 non-functional" per §2.1) but no test asserts the payload shape
2. **originatorClientId propagation** — elevated to Critical in v12 changelog, but §8 "Bridge state cache" bullet never asserts `originatorClientId` on emitted `model_switched` events
3. **availableCommands cache update** — the hook whose absence §2.3 warns about has zero test coverage

```suggestion
> A1 — promoted event payload: `current_model_update` produces a `model_switched` with `data.modelId` (not `data.currentModelId`) and `data.sessionId` set; assert `data.currentModelId` is NOT present.
>
> originatorClientId — bridge `setSessionModel`/`applyModelServiceId` publish with `originatorClientId` set; demux promotion and reconciliation corrective publish with `originatorClientId` undefined.
>
> availableCommands — `available_commands_update` generic sessionUpdate updates `entry.availableCommands` synchronously; a subsequent A5 `session_snapshot` reflects the updated commands.
```

  - _converged:_ status read equals `entry.currentModelId` (the bus's current model) → no corrective (`action=converged`).
  - _generation-skip (TOCTOU):_ a promotion lands during the async read (generation advances) → reconciliation **skips** the corrective even if its read is stale (`action=skipped-newer-gen`).
  - _failure-path trigger:_ a timed-out roundtrip (`model_switch_failed`) still triggers reconciliation; the comparison baseline is `entry.currentModelId` (the pre-roundtrip value, since `model_switch_failed` does NOT update the cache); if the agent actually applied the timed-out model A (read returns A) and `entry.currentModelId` is still the old value B, reconciliation emits corrective `model_switched(A)` via `publishModelSwitched` → bus converges on A.
  - _read-error:_ status read fails all retries → emits `reconciliation_failed { sessionId, error, retryCount, trigger }` with correct payload; per-attempt logs emitted (`attempt=1/<max>`, `attempt=2/<max>`); no corrective.
- **Cross-axis non-suppression (§2.1):** an in-flight bridge **model** roundtrip does NOT suppress an in-session `current_mode_update` (it IS promoted), and vice-versa.

> - **Bridge state cache (§2.3):** every `model_switched` publish site routes through `publishModelSwitched` which updates `entry.currentModelId` AND bumps `entry.modelPublishGeneration`; assert generation advanced by exactly 1 after each (including the reconciliation corrective). The snapshot/dedup/generation-guard reads see the latest value synchronously; cache seeded on session create.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §2.1 requires demux observability as "required, not optional": `[demux] session=<id> type=<sub> action=promoted|dropped|suppressed|generic reason=<why>`. The design warns that the `dropped` case "especially must be visible so oncall can distinguish 'agent didn't emit' / 'demux dropped' / 'SSE lost'." Yet §8's "Demux/§1.1" bullet tests promotion and suppression outcomes but has zero assertions on `[demux]` structured log output.

Add a test bullet: assert `[demux]` structured log lines are emitted for at least `promoted`, `suppressed`, and `dropped` actions, with correct `session`, `type`, `action`, and `reason` fields.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

- **Dual-emit transition (§2.1/§6):** during the window both `approval_mode_changed` AND `session_update{current_mode_update}` are emitted; after removal only `approval_mode_changed`.

> - **extNotification transport (v7):** `current_model_update` arrives via `extNotification()` (not `sessionUpdate()`) and promotes to `model_switched`.

Reviewer 2: **[Suggestion]** Missing A2 reconciliation test scenarios in §8

§8 has 7 model-axis reconciliation test scenarios (corrective, converged, generation-skip, failure-path trigger, read-error, failure-path converged, non-recursion guard) but zero approval-mode equivalents. §2.2 states "the same reconciliation applies to A2 once `approvalModeQueue` exists" and §7 step 3c commits to `approvalModePublishGeneration` + `publishApprovalModeChanged` helper landing atomically with A2 promotion.

Suggested fix: Add a "Reconciliation (A2, approval-mode)" test group in §8 mirroring the model scenarios: corrective after concurrent in-session `/approval-mode` during bridge roundtrip, converged, generation-skip, `publishApprovalModeChanged` generation invariant. Note these are gated on A2 unblocking.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

- **Helper regression (§3 point 4):** `exit_plan_mode` and `ProceedAlways` callers still produce correct `current_mode_update` payloads after the helper is generalized.
- **Double-emit edge (§3):** concurrent `/approval-mode` + `ProceedAlways` both emit; reducer converges.
- **Non-recursion structural guard (§2.2):** while reconciliation is in flight (`reconciliationInFlight === true`), a concurrent promotion that would trigger reconciliation is **skipped** (`action=skipped-reentrant`); the flag resets after the in-flight reconciliation settles regardless of outcome. Additionally: after a reconciliation corrective `model_switched` fires, assert `getSessionContextStatus` is invoked **exactly once** for the triggering settle event — the corrective publish does NOT re-enter the reconciliation path (bounded call count).
- **Failure-path converged (§2.2):** `model_switch_failed` fires → reconciliation reads `getSessionContextStatus` → returns `entry.currentModelId` (unchanged) → no corrective emitted (`action=converged`); bus state unchanged.

> - **Generation counter values (§2.3):** after a promote → reconciliation → corrective sequence, `entry.modelPublishGeneration` equals `gen_before + 2` (one for the initial promote, one for the corrective); `gen_before`/`gen_after` logged in observability match the counter values at entry/exit of reconciliation.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Off-by-one in the generation counter test assertion. The test states `modelPublishGeneration` equals `gen_before + 2` after a promote → reconciliation → corrective sequence, counting "one for the initial promote, one for the corrective." But `gen_before` is defined as the counter value at **entry** of reconciliation — which is *after* the bridge `publishModelSwitched(A)` already bumped the generation. Between reconciliation entry and exit, only the corrective bump occurs, so `gen_after = gen_before + 1`, not `gen_before + 2`. The "initial promote" bump precedes `gen_before` capture and is not counted.

```suggestion
- **Generation counter values (§2.3):** after a promote → reconciliation → corrective sequence, `entry.modelPublishGeneration` equals `gen_before + 1` (the corrective bump only; the bridge publish bump precedes `gen_before` capture); `gen_before`/`gen_after` logged in observability match the counter values at entry/exit of reconciliation.
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

---

## 9. Resolved decisions (emitter ownership)

| Entry                                              | agent path                                                                   | through `Session.*`?          | session-scoped emitter                                                            | workspace publish                          |

> | -------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** §2.3 specifies `availableCommands` cache update via `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` intercepting `available_commands_update`, and explicitly warns: "If the implementer misses the hook, A5's snapshot serves stale/undefined commands with no backstop." Yet the "Bridge state cache (§2.3)" test bullet only asserts `currentModelId`/`modelPublishGeneration` via `publishModelSwitched` — the third cache field has zero test coverage.

Add a test scenario: an `available_commands_update` generic sessionUpdate arriving at `BridgeClient.sessionUpdate()` updates `entry.availableCommands` synchronously (assert the cache value before the generic forwarding publish); an A5 `session_snapshot` emitted immediately after reflects the updated commands.

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_
